Boop here we go hello Kyle hey man
what's going on what's going on buddy
good to see you again good to see you
and your wonderful pink shirt yeah it's
confident right pink and gray it's like
you're confident you got a lot of shit
going on
yeah the lowdown on this though is uh I
was supposed to get this dry-cleaned
when I was in Tennessee for politican
which was just a few days ago and then
even when I got here I was like I gotta
get this tri clean go on Rogan show of
course I didn't but it doesn't look too
wrinkly it looks good
thanks man looks very good preciate it
so tell me what you were saying right
when I walked in I said hold this
thought you were you were saying that
Chelsea Manning is locked up and they're
charging her a thousand dollars a day
yeah Chelsea Manning is locked up right
now because they wanted her to say more
stuff against Julian Assange she's
refusing to do it and they're finding
her I think it's over $1,000 a day so
that shows you you know cuz before that
we were talking about Snowden
yeah and that shows you that they do not
mess around when they feel like you're
uncovering their BS ya know what are
they trying to get from Julia Assange
like what do they have on him well
Julian Assange there's a there's a
couple reasons why they despise him but
he has no political home right now
particularly because it used to be
Democrats that defended him right but
then he pissed off the Democrats because
he leaked on the DNC and he showed you
know what was going on with Hillary
behind the scenes and now the primary
was basically rigged against Bernie
Sanders so Democrats used to like him
now Democrats hate him and Trump used to
like him when he said when he was
getting this information on Hillary but
they hate him as well because Trump has
basically been convinced by the people
around him in the White House that this
guy is dangerous because this guy
basically exposed US war crimes that's
why they're coming after him because he
released a video which showed that we
were killing civilians and then we
circle back around and did what's called
a double tap where we killed the first
responders and the idea at the time was
oh it's okay we're going after al-qaeda
but come to find out that wasn't
al-qaeda they were innocent civilians
and then they were the medics that came
afterwards and so Julian Assange thought
hey listen this is not something we
should be doing and the American people
deserve to know about this this
shouldn't be top-secret this is a war
crime and so he released that and then
that's why they were coming after him
and throwing the book at him because you
know just like with Mike Ravel
previously Daniel Ellsberg actually is
who I'm thinking of just like with
Daniel Ellsberg
when he showed the what we were doing in
Vietnam and how we were killing
civilians they do not want you to expose
their war crimes they will throw the
book at you and act like you're a spy
you're working for a foreign country
you're a traitor because they want to
keep that stuff under wraps because it
really embarrasses them and it really
shows what US Empire is doing around the
world that was that Collateral Murder
video yes yeah what's really bizarre
about this is how no one speaks out
against it no one no one on the right no
one on the left it's just this thing now
yeah I don't I mean it's like it doesn't
have a home yeah well unfortunately what
you see is it becomes very partisan so
when when Obama is doing drone strikes
and killing 90% innocent people
unfortunately partisan Democrats don't
talk about it now that Trump has
increased drone strikes by four hundred
and thirty two percent over Obama with
still a tremendously high civilian death
rate now you know maybe some Democrats
will talk about it but Republicans
certainly don't talk about it but four
hundred and thirty two hundred thirty
two percent that's right and Obama was a
radical acceleration of the Bush
administration's drone policy that's
right and Trump has increased it even
more and see that's the problem is
people get mad now that you know Trump
is at the helm of this stuff but all of
these things now it's precedent he's not
doing anything that wasn't established
beforehand it was two answers the one
you say Trump is doing it who exact
exactly making the call do they bring
this call to trump and they say hey you
know we're gonna bomb Yemen we're gonna
do this with drones and this does he
have to sign off on each individual
attack that's a great question and the
short answer is I don't know I wouldn't
be surprised if Trump was directly
involved in some of these instances I
know that his first military raid is
president that he approved ended up
killing a nine year old American girl
it was Anwar al-awlaki's daughter I
believe and but I also do think that
there is this what you can call the deep
state I know people think that's like a
conspiratorial term but it's really not
all that saying is that the CIA the NSA
the FBI these are people who are in
these positions of power and they're
there they're throughout all these
different administrations yes Snowden
talked about that exactly so that's not
conspiratorial and so when when you have
a kill list and when you have people at
the CIA and the Pentagon by the way a
lot of them are calling the shots and
maybe they just need an okay every now
and then from President Trump but yeah I
mean I think that there's it's not just
one person making all the decisions I
think that the president does play a
role but I also think it's generals I
think it's people at the CIA and I think
it's this complex web of people who are
all kind of involved in this thing that
ends up being drastically negative
yeah drastically negative to put it
mildly right when you're talking about
90% civilian casualties with drone
strikes that's such a disturbing thing
that this continues that no one says hey
this is grossly ineffective and horrific
in its consequences yeah what they do is
you know they give everybody a false
choice that make it seem like hey listen
man if we're not doing these all-out
ground invasions and we're not doing
like war war with boots on the ground
well what do you want us to do like
there are bad people out there we got to
go after these bad people so this is
like the soft power option if you will
and my response that has always been
yeah but you do have to follow the
Constitution and the way our system is
supposed to work is you can't have the
president just declare war and just go
and do it Congress has to approve war so
if you wanted to do a drone war okay but
you got to get a declaration of war tell
me exactly which countries you're gonna
be doing the bombing in while you're
doing the bombing in those countries and
get an approval through Congress so if
you were coming to me and say hey man
there's an al-qaeda cell that's very
active in Pakistan or whatever so we
want to approve a drone war have
Congress vote on it see what happens and
then move from there but what we're
doing now is it's just baked into the
cake that we violate US law we violate
the Constitution and we violate
international law with all these
bombings because as of right now we're
bombing at least eight different
countries and we also have a shadow war
going on in Africa so this is we do
absolutely the shadow war and effort so
the intercept reported on this I don't
know as much on this off the top of my
head but if you wouldn't mind please
pulling up an article from the intercept
there's a shadow war going on in Africa
where we're building military bases all
over Africa and the idea is I think that
we have these bases where we can the
drones fly out of and they could go to
the Middle East and they can bomb there
is this also in response to the fact
that China is essentially moving into
large parts of Africa to extract
minerals and see natural resources yes
and this is actually super interesting
because the China thing
they're doing this belt and road
initiative and basically this is like
their version of empire through debt
okay so what they do is they'll go into
like they just made a deal with Iraq we
spent trillions of dollars interact at
an illegal and offensive war China
swoops in and they go hey listen what we
want to do is help you guys we want to
build your infrastructure up we want to
make your country beautiful so if you do
a deal with us we're gonna like build
all the infrastructure which do you
credit exactly and then what happens
they turn around and they say okay well
then you can get a certain percentage of
our oil sales or whatever it might be so
this is and it's funny because there's
been this like evolution when it comes
to empires so it used to be back in the
day you just kind of go up on somebody
shores and say mine I'm taking it and
you do it by force then the u.s. evolved
from them what the u.s. does is it's
this cute little trick where we say no
no we're not going to control you
directly what we will do is take
somebody from your native land prop them
up as a dictator and then they will
allow us corporate interest to go in
there and kind of exploit the natural
resources but it's intelligent because
you're saying no no we're not in there
ourselves like the British did in India
for example or they just showed up and
they're like it's ours you know there
was a British presence there very
clearly we have people from their native
lands take control but we exploit stuff
from them and extract stuff from them so
China took that one step further where
it's like okay no we're actually gonna
provide you with you know material
well-being we're gonna give you a solid
infrastructure and then it's like you
look at it more like a business deal
than an expansion of empire and honestly
this is one of the weird benefits of
having an authoritarian like system like
China does is they can make a decision
on a dime yeah you could just have the
the Communist Party just goes yeah well
we'll do this because this is the best
way to do it and there can be no nobody
can fire back and say I don't agree with
that let's stop it here the way Western
democracies work it's almost like you
have this certain slowness that's built
into the process because there's so many
checks and balances and in many ways
that's a good thing you want a system
like that but in many ways it provides a
strategic disadvantage at least when
you're talking about imperialism so
here's the article from the intercept US
special operations numbers surge in
Africa's shadow Wars the most dramatic
growth in deployment of American elite
troops of any region of the globe over
the past decade according to newly
released numbers Africa
it says in 2006 just 1% of commandos
sent overseas were deployed in the u.s.
Africa Command area of operations in
2016-17 point to 6% of all Special
Operations Forces Navy SEALs and Green
Berets among them deployed abroad were
sent to Africa so this is something like
you never hear him ever hear about it
never been a vote on it they just do it
Wow
it's scary it's scary the way that it
works how you really do have a deep
state if you will kind of making
decisions and the president just kind of
goes along with it and we're all sitting
around here acting like hey man maybe
instead of doing that we can actually I
don't know use some of our tax dollars
to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure
which gets a grade of D plus I mean but
I think doing it because they see a
threat like exclusive USS mu has more
military operations in Africa than the
Middle East whoa
now is this is it possible because they
see a threat I think that's the
rationalization that they use but I
think it has more to do with power and
control and when you're the world's sole
superpower you don't want to cede that
ground to anybody else right and so the
benefits that come along with that in
their mind is they can rationalize
jacking natural resources from all over
the world by saying no listen you'd
rather have us in this position then you
would Russia then you would China so
it's really like this the idea is in
their own minds it's like we're a
benevolent superpower that's only doing
this to keep the World Order when Mike
Baker tried to explain wha wait to me
and one of the things that he Mike Baker
from the CIA and one of the things that
he was explaining he said you have to
realize that there is no such thing as
industry independent of government in
China if you have something like Huawei
if you have a giant corporation they are
inexorably connected to the Chinese
government and the moves they make are
not necessarily designed for you know
the infinite growth paradigm this idea
that we have in the United States with
corporations are beholding the
stockholders or just trying to make
money that's not what they're doing over
there they have a long game and the long
game involves information involves
espionage it involves stealing trade
secrets and and
patents from other companies and so when
they're selling them these modems
they've got built-in third-party options
so the third party meaning China can
extract information so if you're if
someone has this modem and they're using
this modem to send information to
someone in Beirut China can also get
that information yeah they do a lot of
cyber I mean that that's the thing
that's been known for a long time that
they're they'll you know Jack patents
and intellectual property and they have
this whole you know economy that's kind
of thriving off technology that's made
elsewhere that's certainly an issue but
also I would argue that is probably the
case with the u.s. too that this kind of
distinction between corporations in the
state is largely a veneer because you
have such control of our political
process because of big money from
corporations flowing into the system so
I think that a lot of these decisions
that are made even when it comes to
foreign policy are directly in relation
to how it will impact those corporations
like the thing that I remember was a
light bulb moment for me back in the day
when I first learned about it was the
banana wars have you ever heard about
this no back in the day I think it was
in the late 1800s but don't quote me on
that we just went into South America and
started toppling governments because we
wanted to Jack their bananas and it was
literally further I think the Chiquita
banana company that we did that really
yeah so when you look at that you go
okay well that kind of distinction
between corporation and government is
not even really a thing here it's like
this veneer that's in between the two
but really it's the powerful moneyed
interests and the elites that kind of
run everything and they're they're
married at the hip whether they're in
the government or whether they're in
corporations what year was this I think
this was the late 1890s again I'm more
than happy to be fact-checking on this
but I remember the first time I read
about this it had to be in college the
banana Wars I was like that's insane for
bananas it's crazy
well how about when you go throughout
history and you find out that a lot of
the wars were over salt I didn't even
know that I didn't know how they killed
people for salt it was very important
back in the day because they didn't have
refrigerators so in order to preserve
things to keep them from being infected
by bacteria they would pour salt all
over their meat and salt all of their
fish
and that's how they preserve things
right you could apparently preserve
things for long periods of times when
you completely cover them with salt yeah
so it's yes I guess it's just always
been a thing that it's like wars over
resources yes now there's a lot about
oil but like we we're accustomed to the
oil stuff yeah you're right we have been
used that for quite a while and it's
interesting because what just happened
with Syria and Trump that was
fascinating is he at first he said oh
we're getting out of Syria were getting
out of northern Syria everybody went
crazy and said oh my god what about the
Kurds and then we come to find out like
three or four days later that he's like
well no we're actually taking these
troops from northern Syria moving them
over into western Iraq and they're gonna
be doing the same thing that they've
been doing from Western Iraq and then
Trump had the nerve to go out there and
say and we've secured the oil that's so
tremendous we've secured the oil we're
not gonna make the same mistake like we
made in Iraq again and this is something
that he had been saying at CPAC the
Conservative Political Action Conference
going back for years every year he'd
give a speech and he actually said like
we should we should have taken the oil
we should have taken the oil in Iraq
because we didn't want Isis to have it
and we should have it instead of Isis
and it's like he's he actually rips the
mask off of everything we're doing
because he has no filter and it's like
yeah that was a big part of it but what
he's just admitting in front of the
world is international law means nothing
we don't care about you know the proper
process we don't care about like imagine
for a second China did that to us
they're like no big deal or anything but
we're just gonna go into Texas and we're
just gonna Jack all your oil but don't
worry because it's okay we're allowed to
do that because we say we're allowed to
do that we've like what are you talking
about but we're gonna do that to a
sovereign country Syria as we pretend
like we care so deeply about civilian or
that Syrian civilians and that's why
we're there to protect them like know
we're there check their oil that's what
we're trying to do and control the
region it's so disturbing when it's that
transparent exactly but that's see
that's it's interesting you said her
well that's what I was just about to say
next is that some people make the
argument that well at least there's no
tap dancing bullshit whereas with all
all the other presidents they have this
this like fake holier-than-thou attitude
where they really can like put a happy
face on a disgusting thing like Empire
where Trump is and I think it's fair to
say he's like too stupid to really go
through the tap dance and so people are
like hey there it is it's like it's
right in front of our face but what's
interesting about him is
he says both things at the same time
like he has the political instincts
enough to know that people think war is
generally bad so he always goes out
there and he talks about how he thinks
war is generally bad and we got to get
our troops out of the Middle East I
don't know why we're there so stupid to
do in the first place
but when you look at what he's actually
doing it doesn't match his rhetoric so I
don't know if you remember this but like
a year or so ago he tweeted we're
getting out of Afghanistan finally after
all these years we've been there for 18
years it was terrible we should have
never been in there in the first place
and then we just didn't get out
he said that acted like we were gonna do
it and then the generals by the scenes
were like that's a good one and we never
got out and then he just stopped talking
about it we're still there he just says
it he's like we're gonna get out of Iraq
then he doesn't do it so what happens is
he gets it's actually politically it's
it comes across sometimes as a positive
because nobody follows up with it and
the media doesn't do their job and say
wait we didn't actually get out of there
but so it comes across as a positive
politically because he's still doing the
head fakes towards non-intervention with
people agree with but it's business as
usual behind the scenes how much time do
you think he actually spends on any of
these things and if he does spend time
how does he have the time to do these
interviews how does he have the time to
tweet how does he have the time to watch
Fox News I mean I really want to know
like how much interaction he actually
has with his cabinet like how much
interaction does he actually have with
the generals how much interaction that's
that's the dirty little secret Joe is
that it can't be much it's not because
what he really does is he watches Fox
News all day and tweets out their videos
and he tweets all day
well how yeah right how many be doing
that and then also doing what we think
you should do look I don't have any time
and all I do is do podcasts okay so I
watch him and I'm like this doesn't make
any fucking sense no so here's the thing
and there was a story that was reported
before he became president I think it
was after he got the Republican
nomination there was this interesting
story that it wasn't discussed too much
but I thought it was fascinating because
the Trump team apparently approached
John Kasich who's just like kind of a
standard establishment Republican and he
was the governor of maybe in Ohio but
I'm not sure it was one of those states
over there but anyway so he approached
John Kasich and basically said to him
boss behind the scenes hey listen man if
I
in this election I want you to kind of
like be my vice president run the
day-to-day at the White House
take care dot all the i's cross all the
t's do all the work like that and I want
to go around the country and keep doing
rallies and rile up everybody and get
everybody to our side so basically and
this shouldn't come as a surprise to
anybody what's that well even if you win
why do you have to rile everybody up
well see he's the first president to
never stop campaigning he's always
campaigning he's always doing rallies
and there's a reason why he's doing that
Joe it's the only thing he loves on this
earth it's that and watching Fox News
that he loves so that's what he does
with all of his time and everything else
yes he's just see this is the thing Joe
he took all these deeply establishment
figures Steve minuchin of Goldman Sachs
Stephen um forgetting his name Cohn
something Cohn Cohen Cohen another guy
from Goldman Sachs he had all these just
career insiders brought them into his
administration whether it's with the
economy with foreign policy John Bolton
deep neoconservative you said he he
believed in the opposite philosophy but
then but then he puts John Bolton to
power because he wants the system to
keep running as it is and run smoothly
while he goes around and just you know
makes the name for himself and talks
about how amazing and tremendous this
country is and what an amazing job we're
doing so it's funny because he has two
different personas one of them is I'm
gonna pretend to be the
anti-establishment guy and rally people
up non-stop and be a politician and be
good at it and then the other thing is
behind the scenes he's like guys just
keep everything running and and you know
hold it together with duct tape if you
have to before I get out of here so he's
at the same time he's acting like the
most anti-establishment president of all
time when he's on the campaign trail
he's also the most deeply Pro
establishment candidate in terms of our
president in terms of what he's actually
doing so it's a fascinating dynamic
that's going on right now
it's a giant hustle that's right it's a
giant hustle and listen man and other
people on the Left might disagree with
me on this but I think he's fuckin
brilliant at it I think he's brilliant
at this part of it but where he really
does have a way like he broke every
single political rule that ever existed
when he ran for president and he won so
what does that tell you that tells us
like oh honey the problem is who is he
running against I don't think that would
have worked he was running against Obama
I think Hillary's such a deeply flawed
candidate and so many people despised
her and
during the me2 era right like her creepy
fucking husband just looming in the
distance like Nosferatu I mean how many
women have come out and accused that guy
of sexual assault and raping and he's
still hovering I mean he's still around
and that's always gonna haunt her
she's connected to that guy forever on
this topic there's an amazing story so
during the election remember when the
story broke of Trump on video saying I
grabbed by the pussy I don't even wait
and everybody blew up and all the
mainstream media talking heads were like
oh my god it's over he's gonna drop out
it's over it's done right what did Trump
do with that next debate this was
actually low key political brilliance
instead of doing what every other
politician would have done which is
basically kind of given a little bit and
be like all right you got me what he did
he leased a short apology video real
quick out of the way then the next night
was a debate at the debate Joe he
brought like eight Bill Clinton accusers
yeah put them in the audience yeah and
then he goes out there on stage and when
he's asked the question the first thing
he says is listen I'm not proud of what
I said it wasn't a good thing what I
said but what I did was just words what
Bill Clinton did was actions folks it
was actions so if you want to see who
the real problem is he's sitting right
there in the audience and the brilliance
of that move is this is politics 101
never really go on defense your best
defense is a really good offense so he
made it a wash all the sudden this issue
which was supposed to be oh my god is
the end of Donald Trump now the whole
conversation shifted to I mean damn
there are a lot of accusations against
Bill aren't there so maybe this is a
loss and we just kind of move on from
this topic completely that's all he had
to do yeah and you see with every single
scandal the Trump's involved in you see
how incredibly pathetic and ineffectual
and weak the Democrats are at marketing
and strategizing and you see how good he
is because he is no matter what it is
he's gonna flip it he's gonna flip it
back on you so the new thing is the
Ukraine thing I don't know how close
you've been following this but the
Ukraine thing he basically got caught on
a phone call asking for dirt on his
political opponents Jill Biden he was
talking to the president of Ukraine and
he said it in so many words I mean he
likes say there was no quid pro quo but
there doesn't have to be it's implied
everybody knows what you're asking for
you're asking for dirt on your political
opponent somebody's melting down and
going oh my god man you can't do that
this is violating every
violating every norm this is not
something any president should be doing
relying on a foreign power to get dirt
on your political opponents what is
Trump do again goes right back on the
offense and he goes out there and says I
have every right as president to
investigate corruption and Joe Biden is
incredibly corrupt and all I'm doing is
I'm you know trying to figure out why
was hunter Biden getting fifty thousand
dollars from an energy company he
doesn't know anything about energy why
is he getting this and so now again the
conversation isn't man--he Trump should
have been doing that the conversation is
okay sure maybe Trump shouldn't be doing
that but goddamn Joe Biden's son and Joe
Biden's family is really corrupt aren't
they well how about the video where you
you saw the video where Trump released
it where it was Biden talking about yeah
the loan mm-hmm like explain that okay
so this one I'll give you what the
Democrats saying I'll give you what the
Republicans say the Democrats say hey
man that's a misleading video because
yes it's true Biden was holding a
billion dollar subsidy over the head of
Ukraine to fire a prosecutor but Biden
wanted to get rid of the corrupt
prosecutor and bring in a non corrupt
prosecutor that's why he was doing what
he did and holding that subsidy over
their head and they say the prosecutor
that eventually came into place actually
investigated the Biden family more so
that's why the Democrats say there's you
know you're kind of misleading by
putting this out there the argument that
Trump is making is well know you're
holding a billion dollar subsidy over
the head of a foreign government and
saying you have to listen to us and do X
Y & Z that's problematic in and of
itself yeah but furthermore it's like
it's corruption anyway we know that the
only reason hunter Biden was getting
paid 50 thousand dollars a month and
actually now people are saying it's not
fifty thousand it's eighty three
thousand dollars a month is because his
last name is Biden and so it's pay to
play corruption eighty three thousand
dollars a month is a lot of fucking
money and this is where I think like
Democrats are silly because they always
find the weakest anti Trump argument
possible and now they're put in a
position where they have to try to say
like oh the Biden's did nothing wrong at
all and Trump is all bad and bottom line
nobody's gonna believe that the Biden's
did nothing wrong when you're getting
eighty three thousand dollars a month
and you know anything about natural gas
right what was the justification for the
eighty three thousand dollars I don't
even know what they give is the
justification I mean the only thing I
heard from I think it was Ted Lou was
he's a you know Democratic congressman
was you know hey man people
sit on boards and there was nothing
wrong there it's Israeli week but here's
the thing and this is again why the
Democrats tried me crazy is like they
picked the weakest of all anti Trump
arguments so they wanted to use this as
like oh we're gonna try to impeach him
over this and this is gonna be the thing
that we're gonna hang our hat on and
Nancy Pelosi even said we're gonna limit
the scope of the impeachment
investigation to only this only the
Ukraine phone call and then somebody
like me I'm sitting there I'm pulling my
hair out because I could actually give
you like three or four super legitimate
things they're impeachment worthy not
that I think it strategically makes
sense and we can get into that if you
want to but like the one that drives me
crazy is Donald Trump has a hotel in
Washington DC that he owns okay he took
three hundred thousand dollars through
that hotel from the Saudi government so
they're funneling him money through his
hotel in DC and then Donald Trump turns
around and gives a multi-billion dollar
weapons deal to the Saudi government as
they're committing a genocide in Yemen
we know they're committing a genocide in
Yemen we know that we're arming them and
he gave them even more weapons because
he got that money through his hotel so
for me I'm looking at that I'm going oh
my god this scandal has everything it's
got personal corruption
it's got guns going to a vicious
genocide 'el country what was the money
for
the money in the hotel okay so what they
did is they had these like little
retreats at the hotel and Saudi Arabia
would pay for US veterans to go and stay
at these hotels and they would I don't
know if it's like tours of the capital
or whatever it is but they pay for these
veteran groups to go to the hotel but
then of course you look at it and you go
I don't know man three hundred thousand
dollars and the speculation is well of
course they overpaid on purpose but
furthermore even if they didn't Jimmy
Carter had to sell his peanut farm when
he was president because the idea was
hey we're not even saying you're doing
anything corrupt but just the fact that
you have this personal private business
it is theoretically possible that
foreign governments want to give you
money through your peanut farm so you
have to sell it because just the
existence of it enough it is enough to
say it violates the emoluments Clause of
the Constitution which is just a fancy
way of saying that the president can't
be corrupt and take money from foreign
governments and Trump is doing that he
just is right so this $300,000 though
this is for services rendered this is
for hotel room
well that's what they say is it's for I
guess the meals and the hotel rooms and
whatnot I hate to say it this way but
that's not a lot of money to someone
like them well you know but then what I
always think about when people make that
point is you have to flip it what would
we be saying if it was the clinton
foundation getting $300,000 from the
saudi government and then Hillary
Clinton as Secretary of State approving
a weapons deal to Saudi Arabia and the
fact of the matter is that actually is
almost exactly like what happened with
the Clinton Foundation because Bill
Clinton was going around and giving
speeches yeah at all these you know Gulf
dictatorships and then that he was
getting you know five hundred thousand
bucks a pop or whatever was and then
Hillary Clinton was approving weapons
deals the Secretary of State so to see
that I feel like that's a little bit
more egregious because these speeches
are worthless
like at least the this hotel rooms
it's like real it's real food he's meals
like that actually cost money these
speeches are worthless that's a in my
opinion in my opinion those speeches are
a transparent bribe so do you think
though that a president should be able
to have private businesses the foreign
governments can pay him any amount of
money no I don't think so I don't I
don't sure but I just don't think
they're comparable like I think with the
Clinton Foundation I think the Clinton
Foundation was egregiously gross right I
think both of those things are
egregiously gross and I don't think it
influences him I think it's sure it sure
influences them because there's a deal
right they have a deal even if it's only
$300,000 which I know most people hear
this oh like that's a lot of money it's
a lot of money to me but is it a lot of
money to a billionaire I don't
necessarily think it is and it's it's
also a lot of money that goes through
his organization and that it costs money
to make that money so how much profit is
that out of $300,000 is not that much
profit with if $500,000 of speech that's
one talk for one hour and it costs
nothing for him and he's making a half a
million dollars and he did it over and
over and over and over and over again
and it was all under this the guise of
the Clinton Foundation is doing this
great charitable work all across the
country and all across the world and
that to me was more transparently
disgusting yeah so I understand I
understand why you would say that but I
also think that there's a problem with
it in Prince
yes I would just nip it in the bud no
questions asked but beyond that there's
also other stuff so I'm just giving you
one example there's so there's the other
thing which again very few people spoke
about or recognized that during the
campaign Donald Trump registered eight
new businesses in Saudi Arabia so again
when you're running for president it's
you know you're it's a public service
you're trying to serve your country
right and you shouldn't intertwine
business with that in any way shape or
form there's another one I believe he
has he has a hotel in in Turkey and now
his argument by the way is no it's okay
because I transferred all this to my
kids so while I'm president my kids take
run my businesses and take care of it
but I think that's just a total nonsense
Dodge because you're still your family
is still profiting from it and here's a
crazy fact Joe than this one would
really just blew my mind
with Trump in office in one year Jared
and Ivanka made I think it was 82 or 83
million dollars in one year how through
their businesses and they say oh there's
nothing to see here there's no problem
but then you dig into the specifics and
yet again you see so many sketchy things
like Jared Kushner got like millions of
dollars from Israeli banks why and then
this is the guy who they say it's okay
he's gonna broker a peace deal between
Israel and Palestine one of the sides is
given a millions of dollars you think
that's gonna be a fair pizu it's gonna
be the most lopsided peace deal in
history and this is the problem is that
and again for the Trump example it's
just that he kind of rips the mask off
and shows you what everybody's doing but
it's not like it didn't happen with Bill
Clinton it's not like like with Barack
Obama it was Wall Street appointed his
entire administration I believe he got a
list from Citigroup to you know put
people in his cabinet and it's like this
is the way the system functions and my
opinion is it should you shouldn't be
taking money from foreign governments
you shouldn't be taking money from
corporations because you're gonna be
biased in favor of those countries and
in favor like look at what happened with
your market shogi and Trump I mean they
killed a journalist they killed a
journalist and they didn't even get a
slap on the wrist it was nothing why
again because we're so intertwined with
them with business relations and he is
making money from them and and where is
that right now where's what did you
mawkish
you think yes as far as I know it's dead
in the water that's crazy but this again
look at the difference between how they
talk about stuff like this when it's a
US ally versus when it's not a US ally
when it's a US ally like Saudi Arabia
that does it there's nothing to see here
but you know if you get a similar story
coming out of Iran for example who's not
a US ally or they'd love to go after
Maduro and I'm not saying he's a good
guy but they go after Maduro because
he's not a US allies they could harp
away on all the negative things about
him but we're not having a conversation
about Jamal khashoggi we're not having a
conversation about people being beheaded
in the public square for stuff like
sorcery Joe they kill people in Saudi
Arabia for sorcery and witchcraft and
drug smuggling and apostasy if you don't
think God is real and you say that in
Saudi Arabia they could kill you they
could cut your head off in the public
square and we really killing people for
a sorcery yes really yes they're killing
people for sorcery it's crazy
the Khashoggi thing is super disturbing
because it seems like everybody's like
well what are you gonna do well what are
you gonna do I know I mean it would have
been cleaner if they just made him have
some sort of heart attack or an accident
or something along if there was
plausible deniability in any way the way
they did it it's almost like this guy
wanted them to do it a certain way he
wanted them to chop this guy up and put
him in bags and deliver him out of the
country in suitcases and shit or
whatever the fuck they did however they
got rid of him you know yeah it's such a
disturbing decision that they made yeah
and they know they're gonna get away
with it and again this is what happens
right it's been over a year they have
absolutely when was the murder how long
ago
I want last time I was on the podcast we
spoke about it and last time I was on
the podcast was a year ago so it was
over a year ago it's just whatever again
if they're our ally that means I mean
they really do there's so much business
that goes on between the US and Saudi
Arabia and the weapons deals and
everything that the argument Trump Trump
actually made this argument in the White
House sitting next to you know the the
Saudi Crown Prince he's like they're
buying so many weapons it's so
tremendous the weapon is their bag and
he holds up like the pictures of this
from Raytheon and this is what he's
getting this is from Boeing this is what
he's getting and it's like oh my god
imagine for a second it's anybody like
imagine it was a deal like that with
kim jeong-hoon he's like we're sailing
Kim's juggling these tremendous with us
today who I didn't see if Kim Jung Jin
jong-un threatened us today I think they
I was waiting to show you this oh we got
Saudi Arabia's anti witchcraft unit
breaks another spell what the unit
established in 2009 is charged with
apprehending sorcerers and reversing the
detrimental effects of their spells in
the Gulf country let me see the picture
scroll up for the picture oh my god that
looks like Baghdad Bob remember Baghdad
Bob from from the Iraq war where he
liked when Iraq was getting slaughtered
he was like everything's great Iraq's
kicking ass yes I do remember that I was
like their Ministry of propaganda guy
yeah yeah like how my chela be the guy
who they wanted to be the was when the
severed head of a wolf wrapped in
women's lingerie turned up near the city
of how do you say that Kabuto I have no
idea
in northern in northern Saudi Arabia
this week authorities knew they had
another case of rich witchcraft on their
hands a capital offense and the
ultra-conservative desert kingdom is
that really what it is is that
conservative can boy that term that term
is like way too wide if I think both are
I think the idea like liberal
conservative it casts such a wide net
because people like to get sneaky and
you know I'm a classic liberal yeah
because what is that what is that
exactly I can Republican and it's funny
because there's actually when you
actually look at the textbook definition
of a lot of these terms they have
multiple meanings yeah so classical
liberal in some instances means just
like libertarian yes that's what he used
to mean back in the day but in today's
day and age like you said it could mean
you're kind of right-leaning yeah it's
more right-of-center right they call
classical liberal is a very it's it's a
it's a misleading term if you like
classical liberal classical liberal is
it's a it's a British term correct well
I think it originally dates back to it
was a way of describing libertarianism
that was what they used cuz I think it
referred to liberalizing the markets the
way the rule perfect yeah the exact
that's one of those were I hear people
say that and I go both that guy's
Republican why is he calling himself a
classical liberal yes yes my point and
and I don't
like labels period because they're so
amorphous and and people can say if you
if you you can ask people like did you
know for example in the Democratic
primary in 2016
self-described conservative Democrats
supported Bernie Sanders over Hillary
Clinton even though Bernie Sanders is
literally further to the left that who
the Clinton so again that labels when
you say conservative Democrats though
maybe they're just not into
interventional foreign policy and I mean
she's kind of a war monger right and
this gets back to the point of labels
being so amorphous that here goes sorry
classical liberalism is a political
ideology in the branch of liberalism
which advocates civil liberties under
the rule of law with an emphasis on
economic free that's what I was that
sort of libertarian libertarian so
that's like less rules right right
regulate the more regulating a free
market will take care of a capitalism
unfettered is the best kind of
capitalism closely related to economic
liberalism it developed in the early
nineteenth century building on the ideas
for the previous century as a response
to urbanization and the Industrial
Revolution in Europe and the United
States notable individuals whose ideas
contributed to classical liberalism
include John Locke John Baptista John
Baptiste to say I don't know who that is
Thomas Robert Malthus and I don't know
any of these guys it drew in a classical
economic ideas espoused by Adam Smith
you know at one of the wealth of nations
yeah you know that guy do Adam Smith
yeah yeah he's like views like the
godfather of you know free-market
thought in many ways I mean there's
other ones don't get me wrong there's
Milton Friedman of course and there's a
Hayek and there's von Mises but Adam
Smith is definitely one that's cited a
lot he's the one where everybody talks
about the individual hand of the
marketplace that's who they're citing
when they talk about the free hand of
the marketplace or however the saying
goes leave this expression book one of
the wealth of nations and on a belief in
natural law you tear it you you tear
utilitarianism in progress what does
that mean natural law utilitarianism and
progress
well utilitarianism means doing the best
for the largest number of people yeah
but what is natural law mean
Adam Smith in one book The Wealth of
Nations and on the belief in natural law
click on that Jamie what does that mean
we're gonna go just the natural law of
money from a book oh so I think what I
think what it's referring to is like
supply and demand and how the way the
marketplace works there are natural laws
as to how it works and the idea is it's
always a negative thing when you try to
tweak those laws it works best when you
take a hands-off approach your the
problem with that I mean there's a lot
of problems with that but the problem
with that clearly is that when there has
been regulation for long periods of time
and you just step back you're gonna have
a massive period of chaos until things
do settle if you do let the market
decide I would imagine there's gonna be
a period when the deregulation takes
place there's gonna be a lot of people
that get fucked over absolutely I mean
there's a we actually have quite a bit
of evidence on this front because we've
run this experiment like a thousand
times in the US history alone but as a
general rule whenever you do market
deregulation and whenever you cut taxes
for the very wealthy there is what's
called a boom bust cycle which means
everything takes off everything seems
like it's wonderful the good times seem
like they're never gonna end
remember the roaring 20s they call her
roaring 20s because was like oh my god
the market is soaring everything's going
so well and then was followed by the
Great Depression and then you saw it
again actually in the end of the Clinton
years because Clinton repealed
glass-steagall which was a very
important piece of regulation and then
under the Bush years as well he further
deregulated and cut taxes for the rich
and what happened we have the subprime
mortgage crisis and the Great Recession
so as a general rule it's not like all
regulation is good full-stop it depends
what the regulation is well to argue in
favor of regulation of the marketplace
is like arguing in favor of referees in
a soccer game or whatever like you need
some amount of enforcement of things
that make sense like I love when
libertarians argue like you know well
when even like think about would you
want to have no FDA at all looking after
the drugs that are out there
exactly it's ridiculous and you could
sell stuff that's cut with substances
that could end up killing you I mean
this is actually what happened in
prohibition they used during Prohibition
they used to make alcohol and bathtubs
and cut it with substances that
very dangerous and so every now and then
there would be a bad batch of alcohol
and people would die because the way
they made the alcohol had no regulation
and no standards like what happens today
with drugs exactly yes and that's I mean
we could talk about I'm sure you saw
what happened with that standoff between
the Mexican military and the drug cartel
dude they beat the government in a
standoff in a battle and they ended up
freeing El Chapo son well did you see
when the Sicario showed up and stirred
just start talking to the people in the
Mexican military yes and the Mexican
military is like hey yeah we're just
trying to stay alive here it's what we
got to do let them go okay and that's
good listen it's such a tough situation
because the the drug cartel was just
gonna start massacring people yes if
they didn't release them so if you're
the President of Mexico if you're AM low
what do you do I mean if I'm in this
position I go hey man I can't have you
doing a genocide in a village in Mexico
and they're under-resourced there's not
right people and the Mexican cartel has
an estoppel amount of money Joe the only
way to defeat the cartels to legalize
tax and regulate drugs yeah because
that's how you put them out of business
they can't compete with legitimate
businesses they can't compete like let's
say we had all these growing operations
in the US and it was legal at a federal
level in the United States what is
somebody gonna want to do or they gonna
want to go to a back alley with a
sketchy character to get some drugs or
they gonna want to go to Walgreens well
I had the author of hidden war on the
podcast his name is John Norris and John
Norris he got a job initially as a game
warden because you know he grew up in
the outdoors and fishing and hunting and
things like that and he wanted to be a
game warden well along the way started
finding these Mexican grow-ops he's
cartel grow-ops all over California and
it got even worse believe it or not when
they made marijuana legal because now
these grow-ops are just a misdemeanor
it's no longer a felony so if you have a
hundred acres on public land that you've
decided to revert this take the water
from this Creek and send it down there
and it kills a bunch of fish and that
it's just a misdemeanor for the guys
growing the drugs so there's more doing
it yes is more doing it and now 80% of
all the illegal marijuana that's being
grown and sold in the United States
rough estimate is coming from these
cartel
grow-ops and a lot of them are using
these pesticides that are very fucking
dangerous
right yeah see it's because they could
just do it they could just set up shop
and you know they go to the national
forest they go to public lands they hike
in with like fucking tubes like hoses
and shit on their back so they can
revert these creeks or divert these
creeks rather and they set up these
grow-ops and they bring guns and they
fucking set up shop and so these guys
these game wardens became like a
paramilitary operation they had to go in
there with dogs Jerry do yes and they
they they had to get trained tactically
and these guys wound up being these
people that had to take down members of
the cartel that soom they're skating
woods yeah
and I think that we have this weird gray
area situation in the United States
right now where certain states have
legalized if recreational use suits
certain states have it for medical use
but at the federal level it's still
illegal right and if it became legal
then these cartel operations would have
to go to business it wouldn't be
valuable wouldn't be valuable they'd
have to move on to something else and
then that would open a whole nother
Pandora's Box because what do you do
let's say you only legalize tax and
regulate marijuana well then they might
just move on - there might be more
cocaine or more whatever my being what
they're doing that with meth they figure
out a way to grow meth with plants they
figured out a way to make meth with
plants this is a new thing they haven't
been able to do this before meth had
always been done with which another
thing we need to talk about sudafed what
a good conversation that is dren these
two when you go to in California at
least say if you got a cold and you want
to buy some strong over-the-counter cold
meds you have to give your driver's
license and the read and they only sell
you a little bit the reason being is
because people used to just buy
everything off the shelf throw it into a
basket bring it up to the counter and
they would use that stuff to make meth
with because it's one of the ingredients
right actually boiled all down I don't
know the process but you can make meth
out of cold medication
well these fucking guys have figured out
how to do this shit with plants now okay
so go get go to that
say okay plant-based math is the next
frontier of Afghanistan's drug trade so
investigators have uncovered a
burgeoning local trade in the production
of methamphetamine using a mountain
shrub huh see like now let me ask you
this question because I'm a little torn
on this next one put I'm of the belief
that if you like let's say you legalize
lower-level uppers or amphetamines okay
so let's say you have a more benign
version of all of these kinds of drugs
that are legal and available we do it's
called adderall no no but you sell to go
to a doctor get a prescription for that
I'm talking about over the counter right
okay so do you think that because I
think that would not fully eliminate the
market for the much harder stuff but it
would I think eliminate a majority of
that market because if somebody yes
right because somebody goes and gets you
know a more safer alternative that might
not be as strong but you can go get a
safer alternative or get a bunch of a
safer alternative then yeah why wouldn't
you choose that over doing like
crocodile the one that melts off your
skin if you do it for like like a heroin
that's like heroin bead ones are the
ones that are interesting because their
productivity drugs and that brings us to
trump let's do it this is so much fun
there's a there's a photograph of him
it's a classic photograph because it's
after I love Mexicans yeah he was
talking shit about you know the wall and
it's all rapists and murderers that is I
think this was Cinco DeMayo if I
remember correctly so he's eating a taco
bowl and the bowl says I mean he says I
love Hispanics I think and I remember
watching that while looking at that
photograph going this motherfucker for
real he really tweeted that I love
Hispanics and he's eating a fucking taco
bowl well the open desk drawer somebody
focused in on it and they realized this
is like years later they realized that
it's all filled with sudafed and sudafed
is again the active ingredient you know
one of the one of the ingredients in
sudafed it's the active ingredient in
meth and so apparently people take
sudafed and if you take that stuff it
gives you like a little bit of a buzz
and if you take large doses of sudafed
it's essentially like taking like he's
micro dosing you're dosing meth it's
actually a little deeper than that which
makes it even funnier
deep yes because there's a certain form
of sudafed that they sell in the United
States and then there's a UK version of
sudafed
and the UK version of sudafed has that
ingredient to it which is more more of
an upper arch kind of acts like an
amphetamine look at this it says the
desk drawer full of sudafed including
boxes in New York perk purchase on the
UK indicate yup say that the legal
limits of purchase are being
circumvented and that the then candidate
Trump was abusing sudafed for its high
rather than its decongestant effect okay
so there's that now I want to take it a
step further because I don't know if you
watched this video I sent you a while
ago but I was absolutely floored by the
contrast between the speech Trump gave
at CPAC this year and then the speech
Trump gave at the UN this year the CPAC
one Jo totally off script bouncing off
the walls an hour and 30 minutes hands
moving all over the place so active so
engaging making jokes all this stuff
hilarious and then you go to the UN
speech Joe he's talking like this and
says and he literally he was so tired he
couldn't even say the word sovereignty
he quit halfway through it he was like
and that's why we need to protect
sovereigns yeah
and so I if you want to pull that up
Jamie if you want to watch some of the
rest Hackman's show Pakman had David
Pakman had a an episode where he was
concentrating on this alleged drug use
by Trump and he showed the contrast of
him sniffing at the debates with Hillary
Clinton yes we did a yeah this whole
conglomeration of all of his sniffing
moments this and let me just say in
Trump's defense if I was president I'd
be taking some shit too because that's a
tough job and also don't lie when he
does a rally and he's high as balls on
an upper yeah they're entertaining oh
yeah and I'm the first one on the left
to admit his Twitter feed I feel bad
sometimes because he genuinely makes me
laugh he J I remember I'll never forget
the morning I woke up and I go on
Twitter which is like part of my morning
routine and the first words I see are
from the President of the United States
and it says washed up psycho Bette
Midler
and I just saw that first part of the
tweet and I broke down laughing it was
the funniest thing that makes me laugh
all the time he's done a bunch of shit
on his Twitter that you just like this
motherfucker is crazy
yeah what was the ones that we were
talking about recently that he did was
it a he tweeted something was bullshit
yeah I don't remember what he was saying
was bullshit but like they tweeted those
words was pretty funny yeah yeah well
his Trump isms like the little side
things that he always does makes me
laugh like to all caps randomly yeah or
sometimes they'll capitalize letters for
no reason in the tweet well it was great
when he was the fucking host of The
Apprentice yeah that's when it was great
yeah it was like he was a entertaining
character it's just now that he's the
president it's like whoa whoa whoa this
is real yeah I mean I'm I'm curious what
percentage of the population is like my
mom who really values the idea of
somebody kind of being button-down and
presidential and very professional
sounding cuz that used to be the model
and that used to help you in the 1980s
and 1990s but I genuinely feel like in
today's day and age we've kind of like
evolved out of that and you're not gonna
get another MIT Romney style politician
who's like a robot who's really on
script you're gonna get either a
left-wing version or right-wing version
of somebody who's really kind of
shooting from the hip and has no filter
because that no filter ISM comes across
as just so much more genuine even if he
sounds fucking crazy when you talk even
if he sounds fucking crazy right I think
that's also the same thing with news
that's the same thing with news
reporters that's why I'm here Joe
exactly right and that's why your show
works too so you talk like you're
talking right now
absolutely like I mean and we would be
going to dinner tonight we would talk
the same way that's right yeah and that
exactly that doesn't exist anywhere else
and you would see these people that are
button-down and then you find out behind
closed doors they're freaks you know and
then this is it leads everybody to
wonder like what what is real what is
real that's right someone does talk real
and they're like I'm pretty sure that is
who that fucking guy is like he's he's
that way all the time that's why he's
talking that way so with Trump they're
like okay at least I know what that is
I knew that's a crazy guy who's on speed
and he wants to make a lot of money and
he doesn't want to yell at Saudi Arabia
because he's making money off of them
okay
WAIS I know what that is with Clinton
like especially her like you don't know
what the fuck that is you get the sense
that there's multiple layers of analysis
like and she said it and this was
released from WikiLeaks there's a public
position in a private position well but
the whole polity Gajan thing she called
Tulsi Gabbard a Russian asset and I was
like what like what are you like let me
tell you something I gotta have fucking
proof if you are a person who will never
stop them but I know but in when you're
saying something like that that's such a
fucking important thing to say like
that's a that's a very damning thing
she's a major in the military right now
she's in the military yes right yeah
well she's a duty Russian asset he's on
two tours of duty in the Middle East as
you know why they say that - right
because tulsi gabbard
has spoken strongly against intervention
in Syria war in Syria the argument goes
hey Vlad ur Putin and Russia are aligned
with the Syrian government their allies
therefore if you're arguing against US
intervention in Syria your argument
benefits Putin that's how their argument
goes then they also say and this turned
out to be totally debunked it not true
oh there's an army of Russian trolls
that are trying to help tulsi gabbard
win the election yeah and Joe but this
is the thing that they pull out for
anybody who's on the left and anti-war
this is what they pull that I've been
accused of it before I've been accused
of being a Russian puppet and a Russian
asset yeah and it's like no are you
controlled opposition yeah my controlled
opposition and the funny thing is Joe
they do this because they cannot
actually have a conversation with me and
and disagree with me when I talk about
policy right of course
so I when I sit there and I explain hey
here's why medicare-for-all is the way
to go and here's why a public option is
nonsense and here's why our current
system is terrible they want to defend
the status quo but they cannot defend
the status quo using arguments so they
have to just lump me off and put me to
the side and say well he shouldn't even
be allowed in the conversation because
he's a Russian asset and he's not
serious but the thing is the the reason
why their argument holds some weight at
all is because of the IRA the internet
research agency and that the the work
they've done that was exposed the
Russian stuff where they're making all
of these different Facebook Twitter and
Instagram accounts
and they're using them to start to start
wars like essentially to start arguments
with people about anything and
everything to slander people to support
people you know say you know as a black
woman I could never support Hillary
Clinton and then they make these
arguments and it's not really a black
woman's account
it's a Russian and it's a part of this
Russian research agency that Renee to
rest expose do you ever you ever pay
attention to any of her work no I
haven't but I'm very skeptical on this
point because they always make it seem
like if that didn't happen that we'd all
be hunky-dory holding hands and getting
along they're not necessarily saying
that okay but but they are saying that
this was effective and there's a
millions and millions of engagements and
it flavors conversations and for a lot
of people and this is a giant percentage
of people they do not have time to
deeply research and understand these
things thoroughly they don't no one does
they have jobs and they have mortgages
and they have children and they have
hobbies and they have friends and and
they're doing all kinds of shit on you
know when they when they have their time
off they don't know no enough time to
truly research like was Ted Cruz
involved in the Kennedy assassination
you mean like when you hear a rumor like
that those kind of crazy ridiculous
rumors they just they just spread yes
and they spread primarily because most
people don't have the time to look into
these things so if you have something
like the internet research agency that's
been shown to start a bunch of accounts
like they have black life matters
accounts they have separatist Texas
separatist accounts where they want you
know Texas to secede for the you from
from the Union and to start their own
nation and then they have these
pro-muslim accounts and then they have
these all these different accounts and
they've even organized meetings well
they'll have like the the pro Texas
account meeting across the street from
this Muslim meeting and they'll do it on
purpose
they'll do it just to try to get people
to fight and they have these two
different Facebook pages that they're
running and they're running them with
these propped up ideologies they're
pretending that they're this they're
pretending there are black lives matter
organization or they're pretending that
you know there
puerto ricans for trump-like it's
all--it's but it's madness it's all just
starting fights and causing these
arguments and right and that they're
doing this to try to even if it's 1% or
10% if they can disrupt democracy by 4%
5% here or there it's incredibly
effective if they can get a narrative
going and they can sustain that
narrative a bullshit narrative just
through you know coming up with these
fake thing it has an effect how much of
an effect I don't know but it's in
effect if it's 1% if it's 2% if they can
get a meme past people and you start
spreading it through Facebook and a lot
of them she said she looked over a
hundred thousand memes and she's like
some of them were fucking hilarious and
you're reading these and you're laughing
and you realize well they're making
these things to make people laugh and
also to try to get a point across and
that point is to you know to try to
paint Hillary Clinton as of this or
paint Joe Biden as of that or paint you
know and what they're doing is they're
starting these groups and these groups
will argue against other groups and
people just kind of go along like sheep
and they don't even know who's behind
the whole thing
yeah I really think this black lives
matters group is like African Americans
that are you know tired of people isse
brutality but it's not it's these guys
in Russia they're just starting shit see
but it's weird see yeah I hear you
but at the same time the thing that is
has kind of shocked me is the degree to
which this is relied upon and used as
the scapegoat to to not talk about
sometimes things that are very real
issues and I know cuz it's been done
like they said with Bernie Sanders there
was this Russian troll farm meme created
of Bernie Sanders it's like he's like
rainbow-colored and he's doing like a
you know a pose where he's showing his
biceps or whatever and like that was
then used by mainstream media to say why
is wise Russia trying to prop up Bernie
Sanders why is he trying to prop up
Bernie Sanders so they try to make it
seem like Oh
Bernie's like a Russian puppet and a
Russian asset and if you support him
well you've just been duped to support
him and so it's kind of used as this
like catch-all thing where it's like if
I try to bring up a real issue they
Russia wants you to talk about that why
are you talking about see this is
three-dimensional chess though this is
part of the whole dispute part of the
whole dispute is you see something like
that and then people say why does Russia
want Bernie Sanders to be president why
they pump it up Bernie Sanders and then
this becomes even a more confusing
argument like if they do do something
like that and they create these funny
memes and try to prop up Bernie Sanders
and then the argument comes in like why
does Russia want Bernie Sanders to win
your everything's getting convoluted
everything is muddy nobody understands
what the fuck is going on that's the
point the point is to sow seeds of doubt
and to sort of disrupt democracy the
point is to do this very cheaply and
easily through internet accounts yeah
this is the idea behind it and if you
listen to sam Harris's podcast with the
Resta or the podcasts that I did with
her and when she goes into depth about
this you know understanding this and how
much time she spent researching this IRA
this internet research agency in Russia
and all the work that they do
and they have people working 24 hours a
day on this shit and they're doing it
specifically under the behest of the
government to try to fuck with democracy
I just think we have to be really
careful point taken I just think we have
to be really careful to make sure that
that doesn't distract us from focusing
on issues that really do matter because
often times I've seen that's invoked to
kind of shut up the talk about real
issues and I'd also add on top of that
as well the dirty little secret that we
never talk about in this country is that
we actually are doing the exact same
thing but for sure yeah and sure and I
remember that they created like a whole
fake website or a whole fake app it for
Cuba it was supposed to be like Cuba's
version of Twitter and which is all us
created and was all trying to control
the narrative yeah I remember the story
from about two years or so ago well is
it like oh fuck America well I'm not
sure there's some rules I'm sure no they
were trying to do the opposite they were
trying to say like who doesn't communism
suck isn't an awesome to be subversive
don't shoot like your grassroots
uprising against doing it for Cuba not
doing they were doing
what they think is you know free Cuba us
secretly created Cuban Twitter to stir
unrest and undermine government I mean
this listen this is a tool right there's
hundreds and hundreds of tools they use
isn't it sad that this is what like
unfortunately in so many ways this is
what politics has become because you and
I can sit here and we could have a
really good conversation about the
minimum wage what are the pros and cons
of it what are the polls say on the
minimum wage you know if we went down
that path how would it impact the
broader economy we could have a
conversation about unionization we could
have a conversation about health care we
could have a conversation about foreign
policy and you and I can bounce ideas
off each other we could talk about
market regulation all this stuff but
like that's just not what dominates
political culture in today's America
because you just have this dumbed down
conversation where the entire
conversation is about stuff like this or
the entire conversation is about the the
individual cult of personality aspect of
politics yeah and that's just really
upsetting to a guy like me because what
if we actually have that conversation on
policy I think there's so much more
agreement in this country than people
realize you know and oftentimes what I
say is if you and I sit here and have a
conversation we agree on something
that's you know it's a pretty damn good
bet that that's a solid position that a
lot of people agree with but if two
politicians in Washington DC agree on
something
look out because oftentimes not always
but oftentimes they're going to screw
you and that's what just happened with
again this was about a year or so ago
there was all these headlines bipartisan
consensus and agreement on a piece of
legislation it was all like flowery
happy language they agreed to further
deregulate Wall Street which again is
the thing that led to the subprime
mortgage crisis in the Great Recession
and this is what you get agreement on
between Democrats and Republicans in
Washington DC every now and then you'll
get two good things like you know Bernie
Sanders and Rand Paul coming together
Bernie Sanders and Mike Lee to agree war
is bad and we shouldn't a to genocide in
Yemen okay that's wonderful we all agree
that but most of the time it's like
let's agree to further help out Wall
Street let's agree to further
artificially prop up US institutions
let's agree to Wall Street bailouts
let's agree to more funding for the
military-industrial complex and it's
like it would we would be so much better
off if and this is an idea that I've
been pushed
for a while now imagine we had a law
where every time we had a to vote in a
presidential election the people got to
vote directly on the top three issues
impacting the country and that became
law so let's say in the next
presidential election one of the
questions is so it's a national direct
ballot initiative law and that one of
the questions could be should marijuana
be legal taxed and regulated at a
federal level yes or no and then the
American people vote on it and whatever
we say that becomes law so then it would
be you know be like sixty-five percent
in favor of it and so we went on that
one and you go down the list and you
could have the three most important
issues and that's a way Joe I think to
circumvent the corruption in Washington
DC I mean one ways you got you can fight
to get money out of politics so there's
not as much corruption that's I think
that's honestly a longer and harder
fight but if you do this national direct
valid initiative law I really think that
could impact this country for the better
and it's an idea unfortunately nobody's
really talking about it yet it's not
anything like Bernie's I'm with Bernie
on so much of what he's talking about
and I love the guy but he hasn't spoken
about this yet Tulsi hasn't spoken about
this yet Andrew yang hasn't spoken about
this yet and again these are brilliant
people who have great idea they
discussed it ever publicly they never
brought it up
they've never brought her up I actually
brought it up in conversation to
somebody in Bernie Sanders campaign I
brought it up in conversation with
somebody else he's campaign and I do
think that I'm not and I'm not saying
that to go after them because I do think
that they're really smart and write on a
lot of stuff and I think that in due
time they might see this position and
really like it and maybe champion it but
it kind of in the same way that Andrew
yang is now going around and his whole
thing is universal basic income and he's
kind of putting that into the mainstream
of society now we're seriously talking
about it he's also doing it with drug
decriminalization which I respect him
for he goes beyond everybody else and
saying decriminalized all drugs so in
the same way that he's popularizing
these things and shifting the Overton
Window I'm really looking forward to
some politicians stepping up and
popularizing this idea because it's such
a simple idea it would be so easy to
implement and Joe think of the positive
effects of this I mean I remember there
was a poll I think it's in the teens
like something like 16% of Americans
still support the Iraq war which means
like everybody's against it imagine if
we got to directly vote on that we'd be
out of Iraq tomorrow but do they
understand the implications of pulling
out of Iraq better than the shitty
politicians who are corrupt and bought
by Raytheon and Boeing and Halliburton
right that's what I would say there's
gotta be
one who could advise someone who has an
objective perspective on foreign policy
maybe someone who's in the military
who's got boots on the ground who can
tell you okay here's the problems of
pulling out and here's the pros of
pulling out here's the cons and get an
objective analysis of the situation so
at least people are informed instead of
just having them vote on it based on
public perception have them vote on it
based on something here's what I'm
afraid of when all you have is a hammer
everything looks like a nail
you know what history teaches us is that
spent and this happened endlessly in
Vietnam presidents came and went they
were like you know I don't know I really
don't think we should be doing this and
they would be talked into staying and
increasing troop levels by the generals
right now this is not taking a shot at
the generals this is just me saying that
when that's your field of expertise yeah
that's what you're gonna say oh just let
us stay there another five months let us
stay there another year so we're at the
point now where nobody even bothers to
define what victory would mean in
Afghanistan what victory would mean in
Iraq the original reason we were given
all we got to go into Afghanistan cuz we
got to get al Qaeda because al Qaeda
attacked us ok that's understandable
Osama bin Laden's dead he's been dead
for so long there's only a hundred al
Qaeda members according to our own
intelligence agencies still in
Afghanistan why are we there I think it
has a lot more to do with the trillions
of dollars of mineral wealth that's
there again I think it has a lot more to
do with the geopolitical power and the
chessboard of US vs. Russia I mean that
you know the Soviet Union was there back
in the 1980s and like this was we wanted
to counter their influence in that
region and again with Iraq oil had a lot
to do with it as well the
military-industrial complex were you
know war is a racket a Smedley Butler
said you can make a lot of money going
down this road so that's Smedley Butler
war is a racket scary I encourage anyone
to read that that was from 1933 so it's
old and he was right and he was right
back then yeah and his ideas of what war
was for and that really he was just
really making things safe for the
bankers that's right and look at ease
and how're the Eisenhower a Republican
president when leaving office warned
everybody look out for the
military-industrial confidence because
people will want to do war because war
is a business yes so you can actually
become very wealthy if you're
perpetually in a state of war I mean
look how much again the defense industry
in this country Raytheon Boeing
Halliburton
there are jobs tied to the defense
industry in every state in this country
that makes it so hard because even if
you're nominally anti-war as a
politician you can still say well hey
listen man I agree but I don't want the
jobs on my district to go away right and
that is an issue that's an issue
politician that's the last thing you
ever want to do and have that against
you when your opponent is you know
saying listen this asshole pulled out
and this is why you lost all these jobs
and this is why the economy's in the
shitter
I'm gonna bring those jobs back I'm
gonna reinvigorate the military I'm
gonna do you know and there we go again
so again anyway so the argument in favor
of a national direct ballot initiative
law like a kind of a direct democracy
right idea I thank you I love the idea
and I really do think that even though I
take your point that it's not like that
you know the people are always right but
I would say they're way more likely to
be right that a bunch of corrupt asshole
politicians or then you gotta wonder if
the corrupt asshole politicians are
gonna make these propaganda campaigns to
support whatever idea would suit them
we've seen it many times before Joe
that's a giant issue I mean we've seen
that when it comes to because most of
the time with these direct ballot
initiative laws it at the state level
decide that is in my opinion better wins
but sometimes there's propaganda
campaigns where they run these totally
misleading ads you know about what's
gonna happen I know this happened in one
of the states when it came to either
recreational weed or legal weed
they ran these misleading ads where they
kind of flipped it and made people think
oh if I vote YES on this I'm legalizing
weed but it was all the way around
that's what I'm saying is they have all
these tricks up their sleeves and Ohio
was the dirtiest one right Jamie what
was the deal with Ohio where they were
trying to make it legal but it's here I
don't remember the exact thing but I was
hearing was that they had it tied up so
that only like for business and monopoly
fit with me like for like forever
forever forever but like for a long one
man that like you could it's legal but
you have to buy it from me you can't
even grow it yourself like what imagine
if they did that with Tomatoes okay
we're gonna have tomatoes legal in Ohio
but you can only buy them from boy like
it's a fuck and the tomatoes in the
ground how can you stop people from if
it's legal it's legal you know I mean
there's no laws
against you growing anything that's
legal right right yeah well there
shouldn't be there probably are like so
weird rules and regulations on it right
some sneaky shit just designed for
business right and that's the thing is
like that is just rank corruption you
and I both know that the reason that
came about is because whoever was in
charge of the business that was getting
that contract yes
knew the person in government probably
funneled the money for his campaign yes
and that's the honestly Joe that's the
root of all the problems the root of all
the problems is the money in politics
it's the corporation's
right paying the politicians it's the
billionaires paying the politicians and
if we can have this thing called clean
elections which just means that every
election is publicly financed then in a
situation like that you would actually
see elections run on competing ideas and
philosophies and you wouldn't see
elections run on competing special
interests because right now you could
say okay Democrats who who gives money
of Democrats unions give money to
Democrats so that's an issue some
environmentalist groups give money to
Democrats so I would argue those special
interests are a little less scary but
also I mean Wall Street the
military-industrial complex also gives
to Democrats not just to Republicans
right so you have these competing
special interests going at it and really
you're just trying to determine which
group of special interests is going to
run the country for the next four years
and it'd be so much better if we have
like I would love to have debates with
people who just actually flat-out
disagree with me if you had me and Ron
Paul here and him and I argue about
economic because he's a libertarian and
I'm not I believe in social democracy it
would be an awesome conversation we
could actually disagree on the substance
and really nail down where we disagree
and why and let the people make their
mind up politics would be beautiful if
that was the case but what's interesting
is it's always going to be dependent
upon a single individual personality
that people find appealing
that is tough where we are as a country
yeah I mean and this is and when someone
gets chopped down boy they get chopped
down like Kamala Harris when tulsi
gabbard took her out the hamstrings
that's a wrap baby Tulsi mr. Lutz you
for taking down calm I mean dude she
everybody was saying she's the one she's
gonna run it and talk even thought she
would have a stronger run than she did
and she fell up but did you see Tulsi
made her fall apart it's fascinating
she just shrunk into the shadows like
she's you know did you see the last
debate because that was like
keek ok she's done now oh yeah because
what was her main issue it was so
hilarious to watch this her main issue
that she decided I'm going to take a
stand on this and the Trump with Twitter
was she was begging Elizabeth Warren why
don't you support banning Trump from
Twitter I mean we're talking about two
different sets of rules the most
powerful man in the world is violated if
she think that that was something that
she's surrounded by absolute morons who
are democratic strategists in Washington
DC and they think okay you have to
outflank Elizabeth Warren on her left on
some issue so use this issue and try to
make it seem like you're standing up for
the little guy and you're standing up
for a rules even thing cuz Joe I know
man because even to people who are on
the left that looks like you're just
begging for the mods like the real
problem is she never did deny what Tulsi
said and she can't oh you're about
record and how terrible her record the
record was awful the fab salutely what
she did with schools is the most destroy
and see thing yes yes she single moms
with jail if their kids didn't go to
school and she joked around about it at
these meetings she joked around about it
and didn't conferences you know about
how she cleaned it up and she just had
cops knocking on the door ha ha ha you
know it was it was bad disturbing yeah
what was even worse is there was
somebody who was found not guilty on
something they were wrongfully
imprisoned found not guilty on something
when it came back up and then Kamala
Harris didn't let him out and kept him
in on a technicality and said all your
paperwork wasn't filed in the proper
time for whatever was on purpose herself
she yes yes this is the story that broke
and why why did she do that I don't know
I have no idea but this is one of the
things that you know Tulsi was shining a
spotlight on one of the things that
Tulsi says which they use them for cheap
labor for the state of California and
she didn't deny any of that she because
her record is abysmal on this stuff I
mean there's no there's nothing that she
got to this prominent position without
any of that being exposed and Tulsi
exposed it just like click turn the
lights on well look at the Steve
minuchin thing this is one that we've
known for a while so Steve minuchin was
part of Goldman Sachs he
also the head of one West Bank here in
California and what happened was they
were during the subprime mortgage crisis
in the Great Recession they were
illegally foreclosing on people early
and kicking them out of their homes in
violation of the law and so Camille
Harris uh you know it was recommended by
her own office
you got to prosecute this guy look what
he's doing she didn't do it why because
he's a big Democratic donor and he was
giving money to Democrats at the time
now by the way just in case anybody
thinks oh this is just a partisan issue
and only the Democrats are bad steve
minuchin is in the Trump administration
he's hilarious
so it's away club and you ain't in it is
the point to steal from George Carlin
remember when her his wife was taking
all these fucking Instagram photos with
all the shit she had on private jets and
stuff they look like Bond villains bro
he's got gloves holding money with the
gloves the fuck wears those gloves that
go down to your elbows if you look at
villains yeah thank you come on she's
holding up money she probably feels
dirty holding up one's you but the fact
the fact that she's wearing those
goddamn gloves like oh my god and in the
fact that she looks like she should be
fucking a football player should be
fucking that's got a gazillion dollars
that's why kind of hilarious right when
you look at the disparity in beauty well
these are the got Joe these are the
assholes who really run the economy
goldman sachs really runs the economy
goldman sachs it was proven that they
committed fraud at a massive level what
they would do is i'm gonna order us a
coffee if you'd like one i'm sure i'll
take one wrong with our coffee machine
okay so anyway steve minuchin steve
minuchin and goldman sachs it was found
that in the lead up to the subprime
mortgage crisis in the great recession
here's what they would do joe they would
sell to unsuspecting clients these
packages these packages of subprime
mortgages but they were rated triple-a
and they would sell them these packages
saying hey man listen this is a great
long-term investment it's safe you're
gonna make a lot of money at the same
time goldman sachs was doing that they
would turn around and bet on those
packages that they just sold as if they
were awesome they would bet on those
packages to fail so that's fraud they
were making money in two different ways
I'm gonna sell you the package and make
money okay and then on the other hand
I'm gonna bet on this same package I
just sold you to fail that's like a car
salesman saying oh I'm gonna sell you
this car and this car works wonder
everything's using car amazing how a
tremendous car was unbelievable cars
cars everything oh really so it's like
angers down salesman doing that Joe and
then the salesman also betting his buddy
that that car is gonna break down before
it gets out of a lot right so these are
criminals Joe and the thing is it's
Democrats and Republicans who are
propping them up the Wall Street bailout
costs 14 trillion dollars why is it we
could spend money on that but we can't
have an infrastructure deal that gives
our country an a-plus infrastructure I
want us to have the number one
infrastructure in the world you had Elon
Musk on not too long ago he's working on
this thing called the Hyperloop yeah the
Hyperloop is supposed to be the future
of travel where you kind of get in a pod
and it's vacuum power too you can go
from New York to LA in like three hours
or whatever it is on the ground I want
why don't we have that everywhere in
this country why don't we have bridges
that are fixed why don't we have awesome
roads why can't we go to airports and
feel national pride and say this Airport
is absolutely beautiful
some are beautiful Detroit actually has
an amazing Airport you know that I had
no idea now it's like an airport from
the future Detroit has these fucking in
interior trams like you're inside and
the Train is above you flying by like
whoa whoa that is happy know what I like
this it's not from the future that is
kind of crazy I have no idea about that
No
yeah but I came from LaGuardia and New
York is not oh that's the worst I came
from JFK though thangka LaGuardia is
number one worst and number two is lax
lax is number two shittiest airhead well
it's even worse now that they told the
uber guys that everyone has to meet you
at like a lot so people like will fuck
over so now everybody's parking in the
lots now good luck trying to find a
parking spot in the lots yeah it's dude
it's a disaster I was flying that at
terminal 2 the other day I had a park in
terminal 6 yeah I've almost missed my
flight I had a walk a half an hour I was
running I had a run told ya it's so bad
there's all of them were blocked up they
have like no more parking spot signs on
all these different differently it's
just so outdated man airports in general
like it's time to evolve to the next
thing yeah you know like is it we're all
sick of that it's a whole day to travel
somewhere and even if it's just a two or
three hour flight yeah but if you go to
Burbank it's still smooth as glass I've
never been to that Airport it's one of
the higher-end it's like oh it's not
it's fucking Southwest oh no one goes
well we were saying they should have a
fly at your own risk Airlines and
actually I'm stealing a joke from Bill
Marcus he came up that a while ago
because when we were coming through TSA
I left Nashville to come here so I was a
politican there and we had to wait on
this line for TSA and it was just
never-ending and it's like if they just
opened up a line and said hey man listen
plane might get blown up but go right
ahead I'm gonna take in that object at
the time so you have TSA pre and clear
no I don't I don't fly too much I fly to
come see you and that's it that's it
well you got to get clear clears the
bomb-diggity you don't have to have ID
well there was a life in there pre-check
too but clear is not okay that's
different okay yeah clear you pay for it
and you just put your fingers on a
little screen eat it pulls up a picture
oh here's Kyle and then you go gone
through when will Joe Rogan get a
private jet is my question like flat-out
own one that seems like that's there's a
problem with insulation right as a
celebrity period if you're a famous
person it's you already have a problem
being insulated from regular folks you
don't have the same sort of financial
problems regular people have and then
you insulate yourself further when
people are always trying to get pictures
with you and talk to you and they don't
let you just be yourself
you can't just hang so you cross over
this weird little area as soon as you
cross over fully now I have a staff
driving me around and I have a private
jet fuck are you yeah you're not you're
no longer a man of the people
however as anybody can pull it off I
think you could if you had a private jet
ever but be like oh cool Joe has a
private jet but if some you know other
famous schmuck did it people be like
fuck that guy hmm I think I do think you
could pull it off and also I mean let's
be honest private jets are so fucking
cool private jet that'd be so cool what
about the environment man well you know
I think can't say anything about the
environment man I feel private jet I
think that and people always try to do
this when it comes to the environment
like oh well what have you done are you
are you using a plastic straw gotcha
that's like a kamala thing you know but
like at the same time there's some
insane fact like I think it's 76 percent
of global emissions are emitted by like
a hundred companies so really it's it's
not people that are the problems it's
the companies and they need to be
regulated
we can fix that moving forward that's a
giant giant percentage of the problem
yeah little individual steps that people
do to minimize their impact on the
carbon emissions and the carbon
footprint it's very small in comparison
to corporations that's right it's very
like pissing in the ocean you're not
gonna accomplish anything yeah but it's
it's awesome it's all these gotcha
points that people want to point to when
it comes to things like plastic straws
and that's not you know with a real
issue it's not plastic straws the real
issue is how we handle waste that's the
real issue how the fuck of the straw is
getting in the ocean in the first place
that is kind of crazy and that's the
problem it's that Garbage Patch thing I
haven't read about this in huge but
there's like a fricken like giant boy
onslaught who's been on the podcast
before who's a very young guy I think
he's only 21 years old right is he about
20 or 21 he's very young and he came up
with a machine that is collecting
garbage from this Garbage Patch the
Garbage Patch is larger than the state
of Texas now it's enormous it's in the
middle of the fucking ocean and it's a
soup of particles and particulates and
all these little half dissolve pieces of
plastic that are just washing and you
see a lot of it in the surface but much
of it is actually below the surface and
you know fish are eating it and they're
filling their bellies and birds eat it
and it's just absolutely disgusting all
right we got some coffees here obviously
is a turmeric coffee it's got thanks
brother
does it work now I don't if I like
turmeric this is very simple to ensure
merit yeah it's actually got an R in it
I don't know because I would have said
to American like me too me too until
they install this fucking machine here
pretty good right that is very good yeah
it is very good a little hot but very
good yeah so what's going on here Jamie
what is this there's this an
illustration of the Garbage Patch yeah
there I don't know if this is their new
machine but the Interceptor I believe
was seen in a couple tweets here they
have one currently on the way to the
Dominican Republic well if you go to his
boy owns Instagram
he's got photographs and videos of the
thing in action and it's like this giant
sort of net collection device is this a
different one
a new one this is fun his Twitter hello
it is from his Twitter yeah okay his
Instagram though has actual photographs
instead of animation okay yeah so that's
how it works it's got like this thing
and it just scoops them all up and the
idea is that they're going to be able to
recycle all this plastic which is
excellent yeah I think we're at the
point now that we it's almost like we
have no option but to rely on technology
like we have to develop technology to
try to course-correct here because my
buddy was saying that especially when it
comes to climate change it's like it
were so far beyond the point where any
casual person thinks we are that
something has to be done that's beyond
just like well cut off all emissions and
that's it you know I mean that's a scary
thought because then we really are and
you've made this point before on the
podcast we're relying on like the
smartest people to save us at the last
minute yeah yeah I mean that is
terrifying that's terrifying it's
terrifying but they're the smartest
people have figured out how to make all
this shit that were throwing the ocean
in the first place and they also need
the guy who created the nuclear weapon
remember yes you said that and I learned
this from you he said I and become death
there's no yes yeah when when he saw the
very first when Oppenheimer saw the very
first explosion of test explosion said I
am become death destroyer of worlds it's
a quote from the bhagavad-gita I mean
that is a fucking terrifying thing to
say when you're watching the the very
first atomic bomb we have the ability to
destroy the world
Oh many times over now yeah which is why
I think we're ready for that no boots
we're we're talking about earlier today
that kim jeong-hoon threatened us yeah
it was on CNN I didn't see that either
but allow me to say this Jo and that I
might get some shit for this I don't
care this is the one very narrow area
where I'm give Trump credit because
there's this part of Trump where it's
just anti Obama ISM in its most raw form
whatever Obama did I wanna do the
opposite right and so Obama apparent
well Trump said he said it to me so I
don't know if he actually did but Obama
really wasn't able to get much movement
with North Korea and so Trump felt like
well if I can get some sort of peace too
it would be tremendous and it'd be
amazing and I would one-up Obama and so
Trump has
actually directly against John Bolton
and Mike Pompeo and Gina Haspel and all
of his foreign policy advisors who are
terrible neo-cons who never met a war
they didn't like Trump has actually gone
against them a little bit and pushed
more in a direction of trying to get
peace and by the way the South Koreans
are actually leading the way on that and
they deserve a tremendous amount of
credit and they like the idea that we're
not escalating with them so this is a
very rare area a narrow area where I
want to give a credit but the thing that
drives me crazy Joe is I feel like the
media and the Democrats too and
definitely the Republicans establishment
Republicans they're trying to push him
in a more hawkish direction which makes
no sense because it's like here we all
admit oh my god this guy's kind of
thin-skinned and he's kind of crazy and
he kind of you know flies off the handle
and we don't really trust him with the
nuclear weapon but you want him to be
more hawkish and more aggressive with
Kim jong-eun and more standoffish like
they got mad when he announced we're
gonna stop our our military exercises
which are you know very antagonistic and
done right by North Korea and is done to
let them know like will fuck you up like
that's the whole point of is to let them
know right and Trump said well I don't
think they're a good thing I think
they're you know they work against peace
so we probably should stop that and then
he got a bunch of shit because you know
the media was like well what did you
extract from them by stopping those
those drills what did you get from them
as a result of it it's like you need to
get anything from them in North Korea
and there's gonna blow some people's
minds they are not in any way shape or
form an offensive threat against the
United States there is a 0% chance that
they would unprovoked offensively
launched an attack against LA or New
York or Nebraska or anywhere in fact we
know and it's admitted as much when you
go to the Pentagon they know he's
actually strategically just acting in a
defensive way and he wants nuclear
weapons as a deterrent to u.s.
aggression because this is exactly what
happened with Libya where we told
Gaddafi after he saw what we did to
Saddam Hussein and then we told Gaddafi
like give up your nukes and he was like
take him you have him and then what
happened
we still toppled him anyway well it was
the next regime right know was Gaddafi
yeah but I mean I mean it was you're
saying it was about
Obama but still the point is the regular
took over right wasn't with all the
beautiful rebels the point is easy to do
with them you can't trust the word of
the US because we'll just flip it did it
was the the rebels do it with us aid
mm-hmm yeah yeah and by the way just
like in Syria like we have now their
jihadists right that was the famous
Clinton speech we came we saw that's
that's one of the dark secrets of US
foreign policy is that we have
repeatedly armed jihadists to further
our own political goals and that's that
happened with Reagan back back because
we wanted to arm the Mujahideen because
they were fighting against they were
fighting in Afghanistan against the
Soviet Union so he wanted to arm
jihadist then and of course that became
the Taliban and al-qaeda and so that's
why I don't know if you ever saw this
but there are newspapers from the UK the
independent the newspaper the
independent calling Osama bin Laden the
freedom fighter at the time when was
this this was in the 1980s when they had
or maybe early 1990s when they had
pushed back to Soviet Union out of
Afghanistan there were headlines calling
him a you know a freedom fighter when he
was the head of mood jihad
when he was the head of the Mujahideen
isn't wasn't that where they
restructured the idea of jihad that a
jihad was initially supposed to be a
battle against your own personal vices
this was how was interpreted yeah I
think it's interpreted in different ways
throughout the Muslim world all that but
anti Soviet warrior puts his army on the
road to peace ok that's what I meant not
freedom fighter puts our me on the road
to peace peace what you think about
Trump's reaction to Baghdadi getting
caught classic Trump the way he did it
that he was crying and whimpering like
why would he say that well he was also
trying to like do a dick-measuring
contest with Obama did you see the
speech afterwards news like listen but
they I heard they had problems when it
came to Osama bin Laden but we handled
this we handled it so beautifully so
amazingly and the the funniest part is
apparently when it actually happened he
was on the golf course and so after the
fact they decided oh we got to have one
of those like Situation Room photos like
Obama did when when Osama bin Laden was
killed and so they staged the photo
stages fuck they put all the wires there
and some of them are not plugged in that
photo was taken an hour and a half after
it happened apparently for sure you can
pull the metadata out of the photo and
find out I was taken I'm gonna pull the
picture up so funny sure so well lit
that's what's what's fucked up about is
like they hired fucking Annie Leibovitz
to come in and light the room so money
yeah the way it's lit she's looking at
the camera I think - he's a character
man there it is go go fullscreen yeah
please make it zoom it on the wire you
see what it is not slug do you know a
lot of them are plugged in but I mean
also isn't it interesting too that
they're still using like they're using
wires yeah I mean I guess cuz already a
better connection - yeah yeah if you're
watching video mm-hmm right so is that
HDMI like what are they connected to
cat5 just Harry Internet yeah right
those could be different but look how
well that's lit yeah I mean it doesn't
even look like you're all really there
it looks fake it doesn't look kind of
weird that's for sure but it's funny
that like and had a moment like that his
thought process was like I have to try
to make this as you know as amazing as
it is but he feels like you have to go
above and beyond to do so that it can't
just be on its own like okay you got the
head of Isis Congrats look at Mike Pence
he's thinking about writing a book right
there
no actually okay I I think that Mike
Pence is actually one of the most loyal
Trump people who's least likely to
abandon him yeah but I mean when Trump
is out of office and has a heart attack
from all the meth I think Mike Pence is
gonna be together writes the book you
think so yeah I don't know man there's
something about this guy so so Mike
Pence a lot of people don't know this
about Mike Pence but he credits his
career to Rush Limbaugh because he
became a talk radio host and he was so
inspired by Rush Limbaugh Mike Pence was
a radio host yes but look at the
difference between him and Obama that's
our money clearly watching something go
down yeah that's pretty funny but um
yeah he's I think he's gonna be super
loyal to Trump even after that the other
thing that's interesting
about the Trump era is even though he
knows how to do relentless offense and
not stop attacking Democrats and not
stop making his case what you're finding
now is that even the other Republicans
are struggling to keep up like they
can't as much as Trump wants to defend
himself other Republicans are now like
shying away from doing it right you know
well they feel the walls are closing in
they do but what's interesting is like I
think there's basically a 0% chance
he'll get impeached in the sense that he
actually gets out of office you think
he'll get impeached but you don't think
he'll be removed from office I think I
actually don't even know if he'll get
impeached so I don't even know if it
could get through the house but there is
a chance it gets through the house I'll
put that at 5050 so he can get impeached
through the house but he needs you need
20 Republican votes in the Senate to get
him out of office and that's not
happening right that's just not
happening it's not possible not gonna
get us what's that not flow I would
argue probably not for 99.9% of things
maybe there's some unforeseen scenario
that I can't think of at the moment that
for some reason would make them flip on
him but he can almost do anything and
get away with it what's fascinating is
how Democrats are so they're so invested
in the idea that of him being removed
that they're saying it as if it is a
fact well yeah because there's there's
we have it's like narrative Wars you
have the one side they have their
narrative about how he's guilty on all
these things and it's it's not even an
open question anymore he should be in
peace she should have been impeached a
year ago and then there's the other side
of it which is just like at least coming
from Trump himself I did nothing wrong
nothing wrong at all ever everything is
wonderful and this is all fake news and
we constantly live in a state of like a
tug of war between the two realities and
yeah I mean what's amazing to me is
watching the media agree with the
establishment Democrat narrative when
it's not like it's not gonna come to
fruition if you're spending all your
time talking about how he's gonna get
out of office he's gonna be impeached
that's just a pipe dream do you remember
that what what the fuck's the guy's name
the GQ guy who had the basement show the
result he's all Romania is the most
insufferable dude on the planet man so
self-righteous so smug see that's the
problem in the Trump era is that Trump
says Trump's a dingbat and everybody
knows it but he's not pretending to be
holier than thou where's a guy like he
thought
is pretending to be holier-than-thou and
he puts on this you know this smug act
and he starts yelling at everybody and
it's like you know you don't even want
to be yelling right now reel it in a
little bit man brakes dog
pump your brakes you know you don't want
to be doing this last broadcast he was
saying that he my job is done when work
is done and that it's days before Trump
gets removed from office and that was at
least two years ago right and that's the
other thing is that there's so much it
when was his last show Keith Olbermann
it was a while ago it was in a basement
with like a cardboard backdrop it's just
like a fucking IKEA table and he had
some notes and that's why Joe I think
that my show is growing is because you
know it's so easy to be anti Trump but
you have to be anti Trump with
intelligent reasons and so my arguments
against him are always policy based like
there you go all Berman retires at 17
it's almost exactly two years almost
they don't understand how much of a
cellphone this is and how this actually
pushes people to the right but whenever
you say something's going to happen that
has not happened I mean goddamn with
something as important as removing the
president from office well you got to be
right about that there will be no day of
reckoning on that and I promise you and
I know that because remember the whole
Russia gate thing the first time I was
on the podcast I did a rant about the
Russia gate thing where I predicted
they're not gonna get him on collusion
it's not gonna happen that's not gonna
happen right I was right
yeah Jimmy Dore was right some others
were right I swear to God the day after
we were proven right there was no in my
opinion you are the most reasonable of
all political reporters you make the
most sense to me I just I've never
watched one of your shows well I like
this guy's out of his fucking mind I
really appreciate you saying true you're
you're a normal person like can you call
things the way you see them and you're
informed and that is so rare man and
even the fact that you're able to give
props to Trump's ridiculous shit like
and say that it's funny we all know it's
funny yeah but sometimes you're not
supposed to say it's funny but the
people with the sticks up their asses
they're only hurting themselves when
they don't admit that right when no
matter what it is they're like I'm so
offended he had some recently where we
were
laughing really hard it was wasn't the
Jessie smell a thing it was something
after that it was something after that
by the way I watched alien covenant the
other day I didn't know that Jessie
smollett he was in that Bishop held it
on that as oh my god I was made so funny
it was amazing that Jude has to live
with that forever when you get taken
down by Dave motherfucking Chappelle oh
this one a top three comedians of all
time dedicated ten minutes to you and
they're trying to act like there's this
movement now to try to act like oh he's
only accepted now by conservatives but
that's just not true
with Dave Chappelle there's not
hilarious he's just not it's just not
true
it's nonsense well this is this is the
problem with woke culture it's it's
reductionist and it's delusional it's
just it's not real and they're trying to
for they're trying to push this
narrative as if they're echo chambers
whether it's their blogs or their
Twitter groups when they have you know
they have these band group so that band
people that haven't even interacted with
them and they're interacting with people
in this bubble and they believe that
this is how the world thinks that's how
you get something like that Rotten
Tomatoes review of Dave Chappelle's
where it got 0% by 5:00 woke critics
then they release it to the general
public gets 99% there you go and it's
also this spring back effect where
people know you're fucking with them and
then they go oh okay well you guys are
assholes so the people that are saying
that Dave Chappelle special is bad they
become the enemy and then so Dave
becomes the hero and then even if you
didn't like it you're gonna say you
loved it ya know and and and the another
thing is they act like he's always been
politically incorrect us look at hit
look at Chapelle show which was you know
I was in high school we all watch this
pal show and I thought it was like the
most brilliant thing ever and the idea
that he ever crosses some sort of a line
that Steve Shappell the whole point is
to cross the lines point of it perpetual
line steppers since day one that's why
it's so funny
would you say Jim with the green land
thing we wanted to buy green put the
Trump to hotel I'm not gonna do this
come
and I know first of all the buying the
Greenland thing is a great move if
global warming is real if that becomes a
part of the United States then you can
go up there you don't have to worry
about it yeah well they say I think that
they want rights not just not to
Greenland but also there's a movement in
the arc right there they want to do this
to Greenland
come on that shit is hilarious it is
pretty funny it's like you got a click
on it though Jamie so yeah but Joe they
want to do like oils Italy now some say
shit in that photo yeah you know Twitter
is they only give you like
three-quarters of the picture yeah they
want to do oil drilling mm-hmm yeah but
I mean just the whole global warming is
terrifying to me the whole climate
change thing is terrifying to me but
what's more terrifying I think than
anything that is a hilarious but that is
funny what's more terrifying than
anything is that we some people are
resisting it and it because it's become
politicized and some people are just
buying whole hog into anything that gets
said that supports climate change or
supports the concept of climate change
and that we've gotten into this thing
where it's an ideologically based sort
of subject ok can I try to frame it in a
way that I hope I can convince some
conservatives watching this yes because
I would love to have the chance to do
that so what I would say to them is
first of all there's a lot of issues
that you care about that this will
impact so there was a report that came
out about a year ago which found that
basically large swaths of the Middle
East will be uninhabitable at a certain
point because it would just be too hot
for human beings to live there we're
talking about that yesterday of Saudi
Arabians summer where a lot of people
from Saudi Arabia come over to LA during
the summer because our summary and shit
compared desires so and that's the thing
is you think there's a refugee crisis
when it comes to what's happening in
South America you think there's a
refugee crisis in Europe when it came to
what happened in Syria and Iraq you
ain't seen nothing yet
right so if you're somebody who fancies
yourself against immigration or a
hardliner on immigration or against
helping refugees or whatever it might be
just think about what happens when you
multiply what's happening now by a
thousand okay because that's what's
going to happen at some point it's just
a matter of when
and the other point I would make to them
is this people like to you know make fun
of the green new deal and try to pick it
apart if we talk about the green new
deal and only define it as basically a
new new deal so the new deal FDR you
know put that into place as was tried to
try to fight back against the Great
Depression try to get people employed
try to fix the country right and FDR
kept getting re-elected because FDR was
beloved by the entire country because he
was fighting for regular working people
that was his thing and that's when the
Republicans like geez we really should
have term limits cuz we can't beat this
guy what if when we talk about the green
New Deal we're highlighting the fact
that yes we're gonna move towards
renewable and green technology yes
that's gonna be a large part of what
we're doing but the whole point guys is
millions and millions of jobs created
for regular people the whole point is to
improve this country to fix this country
to try to make it so that our
infrastructure is better than the rest
of the world what if instead of looking
at this is like oh my god this is gonna
be such a drain on the economy and
what's gonna happen to the deficit how
about you look at this like an economic
opportunity because what's gonna happen
in the future Joe there's inevitable
patents that are waiting to be had for
all these green and renewable
technologies we could lead the world on
that front
or we could lag behind Russia we could
lag behind China we can lag behind
everybody else and be stuck in you know
what would effectively be a stone-age so
they encourage this industry to flourish
well be subsidies like how do you what
do you do to get these industries to
innovate and to pump a shitload of money
into green technology it has to do with
government contracts it has to do with I
mean first and foremost before we even
do the right thing you have to stop
doing the wrong thing which is stop
giving four billion dollars a year every
year as a subsidy to ExxonMobil and they
hilariously say oh they need this money
because it's for research and
development no it's not they don't need
it for research in the moment there are
the most profitable corporations on the
planet they can do their own research
and development right so stop
subsidizing fossil fuels and then yes
what we need to do is invest in a
variety of different things that show a
little bit of promise some things won't
work okay some things will work and then
we move forward from there and so that's
where you could get the Hyperloop all
around this country what if all this
stuff was built and brought about
because we did a massive investment in a
green new deal mm-hmm then everybody
would talk about how it's a wonderful
thing
and how we're finally leading the world
and in our rightful place I find a
hilarious that you know guys like Trump
and guys like Joe Biden by the way love
to say like there's nothing this country
can't do and then in the next sentence
think I want to tell you a thousand
things that they think we can't do and
that we shouldn't do we shouldn't even
try well what what technologies have you
heard if any that are being even
proposed to mitigate global warming or
climate change well they're anything
there's the classic ones that I think
are more effective than people give it
credit for like solar is ones that's
it's effective the people I don't think
he gets its due but then there's other
things like thorium now let me just say
I'm not I'm not talking about a thorium
carks there was a car that was proposing
it was apparently was total bullshit
they couldn't make a thorium car work
but with door thorium thorium is
basically the way it's been described to
me is nuclear energy without the
downside of like you kick it could melt
down and destroy everything that's been
described to me so a nuclear powered car
no not a car we're talking about power
for the energy why not a nuclear power
well the thorium story that everybody
got pissed over was because they were
trying to make it seem like he was right
around the corner they had the plans and
it just wasn't and those people were
full of shit
but that doesn't mean thorium is bad and
totally off the table it just means that
that specific car they were talking
about was nonsense okay but if you have
thorium reactors it's basically like
meltdown proof or a nuclear facility
that's how it's been described now I'm
an idiot I have no idea how far off we
are from actually developing that but I
do know that we need to invest in this
and other things that show potential I
mean that's the only way to move forward
and the nuclear thing is very
interesting right because a lot of the
technology that's a problem today like
what happened in Fukushima is old
nuclear technology
well old technology that you can't
really shut down but they've mitigated a
lot of those issues apparently when you
talk to people that are pro nuclear when
they talk about the future of nuclear
power they're like look the we have
systems that have all this redundancy in
place you can shut them down there
they're much safer than the things that
they constructed essentially in the 70s
and the 60s
I'm skeptical on that point yeah and I'm
skeptical because at every step of the
way they they told us that so with
Fukushima before it happened they said
oh don't worry this is this it would
never happen here and then what happened
was of course you add the earthquake and
then you had the tsunami and they were
like oh we um we built the seawall high
enough yeah
that's like an engineering 101 mistake
and I'm gonna tell me you have
everything figured out on that front so
I'm a little skeptical when it comes to
nuclear for obvious reasons Chernobyl
there's a Three Mile Island five mile
island whatever is called and then
Fukushima but I do think that that
doesn't mean I would you know ban all
nuclear today but it does mean I think
there are better ways moving forward
they're cleaner that are safer right and
Solar is a big one particularly in
places like Los Angeles but with solar
you also need batteries and the battery
technology apparently is not as good as
would need to be in place in order to
power an entire city like LA even though
we have Sun almost every day of the year
you know like bright Sun very few clouds
almost every day it's so nice it's very
nice right no no you come over here like
I know I'm like because now in New York
it's you know you're finally getting old
I'm going there on Thursday dude when
you'll notice this too and you've been
there before but it's uh you don't even
realize it's impacting your mood until
you come here in October November
December
notice when I lived here when I first
lived here when I first moved here in
New York yeah me and my friend Gary were
like well here this this is crazy look
outside it's fucking so sunny
it's fucking January man so I don't
think I have seasonal depression but I
definitely have a worse mood in the
winter yes and in the late fall oh yeah
yeah it's that is seasonal depression
that's less depressed then you could be
right - Lee not rest up as you would be
if it was nice out the Sun just gives
you energy you want to do stuff you want
to be productive
you also get spoiled it's like the
equivalent of being a weather-based
trust-fund baby that's a great point
yeah that's a great point you always
have money so you don't worry about
money well if you were grew up poor and
you felt the sting of poverty and you
didn't know where your next meal was
coming from and you had to work really
hard then when you make some money you
feel great but if you always had money
you're spoiling you don't realize it so
somebody's always lived in LA and never
traveled there they would they're just
like this is just what it is appreciate
it they're appreciate they don't
appreciate it and they're soft they
don't understand what weather is they
know understand they don't have a real
relationship with nature and I think
when a snowstorm comes you have a
relationship with nature and also
there's more of a community bond with
the people around you because you're all
in it together I mean
really have to rely on people that's
very true car gets stuck on the side of
the road you gotta help each other like
it's different it's a different feel
even in a place like New York City
there's a bond that happens when
everyone's collectively dealing with
some shit particularly some nature shit
yeah I've heard you say that you think
you know my northeastern people are
harder they're harder people yeah but
it's also they're they're the children
of more direct and recent immigrants and
the atmosphere that those immigrants
have created right like my parents were
second generation right my grandparents
were first generation they came over
from Italy and yeah grandma on my mom's
side Italian so all those people they
came over they were fucking savages
basically they hopped on a boat they
barely didn't have a video to look at
he's fucking you know they can't YouTube
it just took a crazy chance and hop in
the boat and coming over here from
Europe right they land on the shores and
they live in these immigrant communities
you know they're all walking down the
street to buy bread from this guy and
sauce from that guy and they're all
they're all eating Italian food because
they're all Italian they're living in
these Italian neighborhoods and you know
and everybody's like fucking struggling
hardcore and they have this hard-ass
attitude of the kind of people that
would be willing to take a boat ride
across the country one of things you
realize when you go to Italy versus
Italy versus Italians in America times
in Italy are more relaxed well it's all
you more chill from what I've heard
because I've actually I've been to
Canada and I've been to US territory of
Puerto Rico I've had never been to
Europe yet okay and I've heard it's like
there it's a totally different culture
in the middle of the day they'll just
drop everything they're doing and
everybody goes and eats and takes a nap
and relax a little bit dude Italy is so
relaxing the food is sensational and it
doesn't the weather never sucks I like
the idea of that but if you actually put
me in that environment I'm so used to
going going going going going all the
time that I might actually be like this
is weird and crazy you'd go crazy which
is weird because I love the idea like I
think for example the u.s. is like the
only developed country in the world that
doesn't have paid vacation time by law
yeah like in other countries you might
get like a month off in August or
whatever and you do everyone and you're
paid here we don't have that I
definitely support an ID like that but I
do wonder how I'd react to that like big
chunk of the middle of the day missing
you don't work to her in that middle of
the day I do wonder how I'd react to I
think a four-day workweek just
probably good idea though I like that
idea is a great idea three days off for
days on is the right move that's already
listening I hope Bernie's listening you
think he's listening you recently he's
taking a nap right now himself okay but
we have we have to say though and this
is incredible right before I came in
here I looked and on there's a new poll
that came out of New Hampshire a CNN
poll nonetheless he's now is he
but that's cuz he's from Vermont no no
but he was down before he's leading now
and furthermore an emerson poll came out
he went up five points post heart attack
five points he went up host heart attack
I'll tell you know how you always say
about adversity like if you overcome
adversity yes he's like the prime
example that there were because I know
people in his campaign and they were
telling me that literally the day of by
the end of the day he was like okay I'm
feeling much better
let's go that sounds like wishful
thinking I mean that's what they were
telling me was Kyle I love you you're a
great guy that sounds like wishful
thinking and I love Bernie and I had
them in here and I really enjoyed
talking to him and thanks to you because
you set that up but when you have a
fucking heart attack your body's telling
you something your body's telling you
hey man you fucking you you need to stop
redlining this engine they're making him
will go back some events a little bit
and he's reeled it in exalted fifteen
percent you need to get him on steroids
get him on the magicJack get him on the
juice get him on the shit Trump's on
steroids and some form of amphetamines a
day you'd be hilarious fi diamond rips
all day long they should give him a
vitamin drip in the morning a vitamin
drip in the afternoon just change that
what he saw I don't know what he's
eating but it doesn't he's eating the
right stuff I think there now he's on a
right very regimented thing is not for
nothing that work did you see the debate
right after the heart attack because he
looks so much better he did it's crazy
it's like he knocked something loose
that's right I didn't know I was being
held back Joe I had a bomb Ottery yeah
he really did have a bomb artery right
he got a stent put in it but the thing
that's so amazing is that he's and
killer Mike who you also had on the
podcast who I absolutely loved he said
it best he said this is the only
candidate in my lifetime who's taking
dr. Martin Luther King Junior's
philosophy and trying to run it across
the finish line yeah Mike loves them and
I love
mic so I mean I think the whole thing
about him that that worries people is
just his health in his age and you know
and then there's people that want to
label him as a wacky socialist but when
he explains his positions outside of
that whole debate environment where you
only have 30 seconds to scream right now
it's system and there's a difference Joe
between socialism and social democracy
yes and social democracies Scandinavia
that's all it is
yeah so it's saying hey we're not
totally scrapping capitalism we're not
gonna have everything government-run all
we're saying is let's catch up to the
rest of the developed world when it
comes to single-payer health care
everybody gets health care
everybody gets college we're gonna
abolish student loan debt we're gonna
have fair wages for everybody so
nobody's working full-time and living in
poverty yes when you explain this like
you just said when you explain this to
everybody they're like I can't believe I
thought I ever dislike this guy well as
all those things are as fucking
reasonable as you can get and if you're
going to have a community which is
essentially what a country is right
we're a community we've got to take care
of each other what's the best way to
take care of each other well let's
support each other so that if something
comes up some sort of a catastrophic
health crisis
you're covered we cover you we love you
we are a community if you have a heart
attack if you've gotta this you got to
that you need a leg fixed whatever the
fuck it is you're covered for that okay
well maybe we shouldn't cripple you with
debt when you're 17 years old and you
don't understand what the fuck you're
doing and we get you involved in this
ridiculous system where you can never
get out of it even if you go bankrupt
you still owe that money forever we're
at a point right now in this country
where people who have Social Security
they're on Social Security they're
getting money from their Social Security
taken out because they os-- to dn't
loans if that's not the most desperate
and gross fucking feeling in the world
disgusting yeah it's crazy and we have
some weird creepy coalition I mean
there's some creepy like agreement that
they have with these financial
institutions and these educational
institutions where they've they're
essentially financially imprisoning
young kids at an early age and people
say whoa you shouldn't make that
decision shouldn't shouldn't break the
decision and put yourself in debt like
that okay that's great but this is
that's a very unscientific perspective
because you're talking about someone
brain isn't even fully formed right
frontal lobe you're not even a fucking
real human until you're 25 years old so
let me I want to address because I can
some people are gonna hear what I just
said about you know medicare for all
single-payer health care and they're
gonna say yeah but how we gonna pay for
it because that's the comments one that
sure will bring up now let me address
that because that's a really important
question and usually when you actually
substantively address it people go oh
okay that makes a lot more sense how are
they gonna pay so very simply put the
way the system works right now it costs
more than if we had Medicare for all why
is that because we have an unnecessary
for-profit middleman that essentially
acts like a mafia so what we're saying
is I'm gonna remove that mafia from
around your neck and you're gonna it's
basically what is that mafia you
referring to a mafia is the for-profit
health insurance company so they have to
they have to take their cut as the
middleman between you and your doctor
okay if we just remove that have the
government at no profit margin be the
single insurer that's what a
single-payer means they're the single
insurer then we actually end up saving
five trillion dollars over the course of
ten years and that's not Kile kolinsky
talking that's a detailed study from the
University of Massachusetts Amherst now
talking that's a liberal fuckin place so
what do you do when you have all these
insurance companies like what happens to
those insurance companies well all those
jobs what happens all that money the
insurance companies go away go away I
mean they go witnesses go under so you
kill yeah if I if I say you're not
allowed to cut your lawn okay unless
let's say the guy wants to charge you
$100 right I say no Joe I'm I'm gonna be
the one who pays the person who cuts
your lawn you have to give me $200 okay
so if somebody came along and said no oh
oh oh oh hey middleman guy we're gonna
get rid of you and Joe you wanted to cut
your lawn give that guy hundred dollars
and you're all set
wouldn't you say well that makes sense I
the middleman guy it's he can piss off
because that's the way I look at it the
reality is when people argue for choice
and health insurance look at it like
this would you say hey man don't take
away my choice when it comes to picking
my firefighter people what do you mean
no the way it works is there's a fire
and you get help end of discussion
they will come you don't say whoa
want to pick my fire department well
this is the same thing with health care
the idea you're gonna be able to pick
your doctor that's perfectly fine okay
but the idea of you'll have your choice
between insurance companies
that's like saying pick which mut do you
want the Irish mafia ripping you off or
the Italian mafia pick ripping you off
for the Jewish mafia ripping you off go
ahead I'm giving you choice right right
in some areas the the idea of choice is
fundamentally absurd it's like saying
well let's hat let's shut off the road
system instead of being public let's
have it privately run and you could turn
make a left on that road make a left on
that road or make a right on that road
don't take away my choice of road I want
to pay for that one or that one that one
no it's all there it's all free at the
point of service and this is a whole
idea of having a public utility there's
the whole idea of having something
that's off the table in a civilized
society right and again what the studies
show is it actually saves money so the
real question people should be asking is
how can we afford to keep having the
system that we have right now because we
pay more than the rest of the developed
world and we have thirty to forty five
thousand Americans that die every year
because they don't have access to basic
health care and we have five hundred
thousand people who go bankrupt as a
result of medical bills so what you're
saying is that they would it would
abolish insurance companies essentially
so there is one caveat to that and that
caveat is what's called supplemental
health insurance so what that means is
if there's something that Joe Rogan
likes that's a medical procedure that
isn't scientifically proven yet but it's
still something that you like there
would be private health insurance
companies that sell you supplemental
insurance which means on top of
everything that you already have through
Medicare for all so if you were giving
like stem-cell therapy or something well
steps in in an ideal Medicare for All
system and Bernie believe me has gone so
far above and beyond any criticism I
mean his thing is airtight it gives
dental it gives vision it gets
everything I would be surprised if
funded that Medicare for all bill the
stem cells thing is covered but let's
say something like homeopathy which is
like the worship horseshit total
horseshit
no I cover that by insurance no Medicare
for all would not cover that because
it's so speculative in Horsham insurance
I'm at horseshit insurance or or or
plastic surgery things of that nature
but that's an important force because
real they have private surgery or
private insurance for for plastic no no
no I'm saying it would they don't
theoretically legal for it under a
medicare-for-all system because it's
supplemental how could you have
insurance for plastic surgery like
I decided my ears are too big so maybe
the market maybe the market wouldn't be
there but it would be legally possible
is the point so it doesn't fully ban
private insurance plan
it bans what's called duplicative care
so you can't say hey I'm an insurance
company I'm gonna come in and offer you
something that's already covered in full
by the single-payer system and the
reason why that's there is we don't want
you getting ripped off by some charlatan
passing on your same but it was it would
essentially gut the health insurance
industry it would make it so that you no
longer have health insurance company CEO
is making tens of millions of dollars
off the backs of people while people die
because they can't get health insurance
yes it would and that's a good thing
that's a positive it's a good thing for
us but as a sale like to sell that well
well the thing is there's we have this
issue where we have like a status quo
bias where people think like well
because it works how it works right now
therefore the idea of addressing it and
changing it seems like so overwhelming
that we just kind of default to how we
have it now but the problem is we know
as a matter of fact that the way we do
it now is the most batshit crazy way you
could possibly do it because they
research this stuff all the time they
study this stuff all the time and every
single time they look at it the u.s.
comes dead last in the developed world
when it comes to health care so we
finished there was a recent study from
the Commonwealth Fund they found that
they studied 11 different countries the
u.s. is 11th out of 11 when it comes to
health care so every other country that
does the single-payer system which we
were talking about and there's different
versions of it there's multi-payer
there's single-payer there's private
funding of Kootenay there's public
funding of private insurance public
funding of public insurance but bottom
line is any other way you do it is
better than the way we do it right now
hmm okay and just to be clear because
some people say well what about
Obamacare what was Obamacare Obamacare
was originally a Heritage Foundation
plan which is a right-wing think-tank so
that was basically Mitt Romney's health
care bill Newt Gingrich's health care
bill and the whole idea was that of that
was we're gonna force people to buy
private insurance right and that's not I
don't like that idea at all I dislike
that mess I've been very critical of
Obama care I think there's a good case
to make that it was a step in the right
direction because anything was better
than the system that we had at the time
but I would say that was just a little
step on the
path to what we should have which is a
Medicare for All system where health
care is a right and not a privilege we
catch up to the rest of the developed
world and again we should go above and
beyond the rest of the world because
like in Canada I don't think they have
dental covered by it but Bernie's bill
does provide dental so you know I think
that this is one of those issues where
when it's fully explained to people it's
kind of a no-brainer and you can get
people to realize like no no no the
system is totally screwing you right now
and we can fix it do you think he has a
chance oh absolutely
Bernie Sanders okay absolutely I do now
let me ask you this
who of the Democrats do you foresee
really beating him beating Trump no no
beating Bernie in a primary mm-hmm
well it's good question right it's a
very good question he's got a lot of
support for sure but Elizabeth Warren
seems to have a lot of support right now
- okay so that's your answer right
Elizabeth Warren yeah I would say well
Joe Biden's fucked he's too old but old
in the wrong way like his communication
skills have eroded he floods his words
he looks exhausted he looks like he's
just waiting for them to shut the door
so he can take a big deep breath or sink
into the couch you know I'm saying oh I
know exactly what you're saying I feel
sometimes I feel bad because it appears
like he genuinely has cognitive decline
yeah well he does so I don't like to
make fun of it but then when he goes out
there in the debate and he starts like
angrily ranting and he says you know we
got to play the record player at night
make sure the kids hear words like that
made less than no sense man what are you
doing you got to wrap it up did you know
that his people actually they have a
plan it's called like a limited exposure
or limited visibility campaign where Joe
they are literally like hiding him from
the public as much as possible well they
have to they have to as he's still close
to the lead right Oh in some polls he's
still leading
that is hilarity and here's the thing
and this is what I was going to get to
in relation to Bernie I call the support
for Biden default support so default
support is people who don't necessarily
follow politics that closely but they
might be a registered Democrat and their
ass hey who do you support in this
twenty families I don't know who's
running Oh bye nobody was a VP of Obama
sure yeah Biden why not that's the kind
of support I think Joe Biden
where that is very very likely to kind
of dwindle away and we're seeing it
right now because when you look at the
fundraising numbers Bernie is breaking
all records when it comes to individual
donations even out raising Trump and
Trump's our Beast on the campaign trail
he's nothing to mess around with on the
campaign trail but he's even out raising
Trump when it comes to individual
donations his ground game is airtight
he's got people everywhere making phone
calls knocking on doors getting involved
and so he has basically an endless well
of in small individual donors support
and an army of people on the ground
whereas Joe Biden is doing so bad that
he went back on his pledge like oh I
won't take super PAC money now he's
saying well if somebody were to make a
super PAC and it were to help me out
what do you want me to tell you because
he raised nine million dollars in the
last quarter
Bernie raised thirty and Joe raised nine
so Bernie happy lookie politics I love
talking about politics that explaining
everything I know but you're so Bernie
happy well yeah cuz Joe he's uh he's an
amazing candidate who's just trying to
get the us to have social democracy and
he's a guy who I know cuz his record
shows it he's gonna fight for all of us
even if you don't agree with him and
even if you dislike him I understand
that you might be somebody who's
right-leaning he's too far left for you
but what everybody has to say and they
know it's true is he's incredibly honest
and he's actually gonna fight for you
every step of the way yes no I think
you're right I'm and talking to him he's
a very sincere guy and I think a lot of
his policies I agree with I really
really agree with this whole the the
exoneration of student loan debt that
that to me is a giant factor in a lot of
poor decision-making that a lot of young
people make because they're fucked
because they have this massive debt
hanging over their head it's a huge
source of stress and I think it's a
rigged system
I think it's dirty it's a dirty system
yeah the Medicare for all I think is a
wonderful idea as long as you can seek
you know very talented orthopedic
surgeons if you got some money we need
something fixed and you always pick your
doctor you know because you got a
there's a certain incentive right that I
think that certain doctors have towards
excellence right and a lot of that
incentive is financial and they're the
the doctors that are the very best in
certain particular fields they want to
charge more money for their services and
I think that that should be okay that's
this one of the things that helps make
people more enthusiastic about
excellence it's its financial reward
it's a part of human nature no
absolutely and that's what one of the
things that people despise about the
concept of socialism is that it's going
to somehow or another by you know making
sure that no one makes any more money
than anybody else which is like the most
extreme well that's like authoritarian
communism yes yes yes but that's some I
don't agree with that at all either and
people who I talked to who are my
friends on the left they don't agree
with that at all and one of the things
that we get most annoyed with is when
there's like a conflation people will
look at the former Soviet Union people
will look at Venezuela people will look
at Cuba and they'll go hey well there's
that's what you want and that's what
they say to us and whenever we respond
oh man we're talking about social
democracy we're talking about what they
have in Scandinavia there's usually no
substantive rebuttal to that right other
than to say and what's funny Joe is they
will take credit for those systems in
some ways so it depends if you talk to
Ben Shapiro on one day he might say no
no no Joe those systems are so good
because their capitalist twin extent
okay and then if I fire back at Ben and
I go okay Ben then let's implement that
style of capitalism
he'll swish it and say no no they're
socialists oh we can't do that well what
is it we have a giant problem in this
country with this whole right-left set
shit you know and this is what I was
trying to say earlier when we're talking
about the concept of classical liberals
because most people don't even know what
the fuck that means
the idea behind it I just think that to
have groups of people that think in
certain ways the problem with ideologies
whether it's left-leaning or
right-leaning is it makes you
automatically predisposed to ignore or
to refute the concepts that are on the
other side and so many of us share these
ideas across the board and when one
group is committed to one concept like
one of the things that you do see this
about climate change people on the right
are more inclined to deny the negative
effects of climate change because it's
part of the right wing the right wing
ideology this is something we see today
I need to get so you're right but also I
would just advise people don't get too
lost in the noise because we can think
that that's something that's
overwhelming and we can't defeat it and
we could also think that you know for
example the whole Russia gate thing on
the Democratic side yeah that was that
became such a fundamentalist religion
and you couldn't
was exciting we wanted it to be true and
people would believe it and argue for it
even though the things weren't adding up
and I was trying to point out where it's
wrong
but what I would say is at the end of
the day people should actually be
relatively happy about the fact that I
think the most the strongest divide in
the country is not right versus left the
strongest divide in the country I've
called it populous versus elitist yeah
so you have elitists in the Democratic
Party you have elitist in the Republican
Party and you have the people and the
people are we're so much more in
agreement than people give us credit for
you know I agree I have a thing that I
go down and I did this in some of my
events at Politico as well but people
would be surprised man 80% of the
country wants to raise the minimum wage
58% of the country wants to have free
college like I said only 16% or so of
the American people want to be involved
in Iraq and Afghanistan and these
terrible Foreign Wars sixty-two percent
of the country wants to legalize
marijuana I could sit here and ring off
issue after issue it's over 80 percent
of the American people want to get the
money out of the political system and
clean a finger option do you think that
this country has room for other parties
we are so ingrained in this idea of left
versus right Democrat versus Republican
and this is the choices that we've
always had with the occasional
independent the occasional you know Ross
Perot jumps into the race and throws a
monkey wrench into everything but other
than that or maybe in an amount to minor
extent Garry Johnson but do you think
there's room for other parties at this
juncture so that's a great question and
what I would say is first let me give my
personal take on it my personal take is
i 100% want that to be the case because
i prefer in many ways aspects of a
parliamentary system to our system and i
like the idea of having multiple parties
i like the idea of having more choice so
i want that to be true and when i was
one of the cofounders of justice
democrats when we launched it we had to
have those difficult conversations about
how exactly do we go about trying to get
these ideas implemented right and
basically we came to the conclusion that
as much as we want it to be true as much
as we'd like to start a third party and
have it work and take off there is such
a gigantic systemic bias against that
happening that you really do have
ultimately the choice of republican or
democrat so then the idea becomes okay
it's a reform movement now
we have to try to reform the Democratic
Party and there are people on the right
who can try to reform the Republican
Party like if you're somebody on the
right and you agree more with Ron Paul
and you're more libertarian you want to
end the wars you want to legalize drugs
I hope those people take over the
Republican Party and you have people who
are against like corporate welfare and
whatnot in that party so what we really
need to do is because it's just the
nature of our system because there's
such a bias against their parties what
we really need to do is harness all that
energy to fix things and just try to
take over the existing infrastructure
because you're not gonna build a counter
infrastructure because there's so much
name recognition it's like saying
there's Democrat and there's Republican
yeah technically we could start up RC
Cola and see if we could get a
significant market share but you're not
gonna do it you're not gonna do it it's
not gonna work
so really and again I don't want this to
be the answer but just factually
speaking it is the answer that we have
to try to overtake you know the corrupt
elements within the system and and bring
about change that way because that's the
only way I think it will really work
well the only way it's gonna really work
is if what you were talking about with
voting on very specific issues because
if you most of the things that are
problems are not benefiting people
they're benefiting the people that are
in positions of power and positions
where they can influence the way policy
is dictated because they've contributed
to campaigns and because they've got
this sort of revolving door thing going
on with universities where mathematics
professors and economic professor is
sort of dictate policy or or advise and
then they get jobs and banks and then
you've got this whole weird thing going
on with people in the government right
that's right that's it I mean that was
exposed in what was that the inside job
inside job which is a fantastic
documentary for people to understand the
collapse but you it's not benefiting us
all these things that happen and all
this corruption that takes place and all
this influence doesn't it never benefits
us it's only exactly right but that's
what's weird about it and if we got a
chance to vote on most of these ideas
instead of voting on politicians and
then the politicians implement these
ideas to benefit themselves and benefit
the special interest groups who got them
into place then things would be much
better okay um you have no idea how
happy I
that you just said that because Jamie
it's official I sold Jill Rogan on my
idea
it's a great idea democracy law it's a
great idea right off right off the bat I
loved it cuz I trust and I have no
problem saying that some people will
come after me for it I don't care but I
trust if somebody's watching this and
they're right-leaning and they have
their opinions and whatnot I actually
trust that person more on the issues
then I trust Chuck Schumer or Nancy
Pelosi and I'm somebody I'm on the Left
right and I do not agree with these
nominally on the Left politicians these
Democratic politicians because I think
they're elitist and I think they're
corrupt and I don't think they're
looking out for our best interest but I
think that somebody who disagrees with
me ideologically who might be watching
this right now they have more common
sense and they're not bought right
there's no point right that's the big
things on par there's so much more
agreement than we think
yeah and so if you actually give people
that option where you say no no you're
gonna directly vote on this and I think
we're gonna see honestly I think over
80% of the time the more reasonable
position will win every now and then
you'll get one that for whatever reason
there might be misinformation or
whatever and it's overwhelming and then
they'll lose but right getting it right
80% of the time is a hell of a lot
better than what we have right now which
is amazing Joel because Congress
routinely polls around 20 percent
favorability this is a body that we like
we could just elect them and then you
poll a month later hey what do you think
of Congress everybody's like I hate them
they're terrible how can that be it's
because we all know we're voting for the
lesser of two evils every time we go to
the polls yeah direct democracy direct
my every presidential election take the
three biggest issues we all vote on it
along with who we present well that's
just arbitrary we could say five
whatever it might be but I think that
it's good between three and five I think
makes the most sense because you wants
it's something where everybody will pay
attention to it we could talk about it a
lot you know what I mean that's seems
like a very realistic sense his system
of reform that's what I'm think it's a
good idea I mean I and I think that
would really nip in the bud a lot of
corruption goes right around it yeah it
goes right around it now I also think
that at the same time you do have to try
to do get a constitutional amendment to
get money out of politics so that we
kind of get to the root of the
corruption but I also think that this
direct democracy idea is a great idea
because you do get to go right around
the corruption and you can actually kind
of circumvent a lot of the problems that
are brought about as a result of it what
a difficult task that is though to get
the money out of
because it's so big it's such a giant
part of how all this shit gets done and
once a system gets entangled and like
deeply rooted that's right but the
system of it is actually kind of new it
has a really fascinating backstory as to
how this came about
so there were a series of court
decisions there was one in the late
1970s was that Buckley versus Valeo or
was that Pilate whatever there were
there were like three or four court
decisions over the years starting in the
late 1970s that kind of culminated with
citizens united in in the modern era and
McCutcheon in the modern era and what
people do is they wrongly think like
citizens united and McCutcheon were the
the biggest problem but no they actually
shot a dead horse because the previous
court cases set the precedent of money
equaling speech this is the legal theory
that's now operating around the country
is that money equals speech so if you
want to if you're an outside group and
you want to spend on an election hey man
it's your free speech if you're a
billionaire and you want to dump 550
million dollars into an election to say
keep my taxes as low as possible that's
free speech you have every right to do
that so that's the legal theory that we
now operate under and that has basically
legalized bribery you can't like give
money directly to a politician and say I
want you to do X because that's called a
quid pro quo that's direct bribery but
all you have to do is add a little bit
of nuance and don't say it directly and
have it implied and you're good so when
this is the Ukraine thing Trump this is
essentially exactly you're talking about
that is kind of like the Ukraine thing
except with Trump was just trying to get
dirt on his fart on his opponent in the
election but they know it pro quo aspect
of yeah that's always been weasely
whether it's Trump saying it or whether
it's a politician saying it when they
act like hey there was no quid pro quo
yeah but we all know why exxon mobil
gives millions of dollars long as
congress to a tune of millions dollars
because they want that four billion
dollar subsidy everybody knows that it
doesn't have to be a player lee yes
we're not idiots everybody gets that and
so that's like the weaselly last resort
to say no quid pro quo right please get
out of here so anyway but there's an
argument that really busts up this idea
that money equals speech that i
absolutely love and it's okay well if
money equals speech then murder-for-hire
would have to be legal because i'm not
saying i'm not giving you money to
murder somebody I'm just using my speech
to say I don't have a
with murder you're allowed to do that
you should be able to get any kind of
drug you want you should be a little any
kind of prostitute you want and the
dodge will always be I'm not paying for
services no coz money equal speech I'm
just saying I'm just saying murderers
okay I'm just saying you know I want to
Hooker or whatever it might be you know
what I mean so but this is this is the
logic of that ruling actually applied I
see what you're saying right yeah
Oh money equals speech okay does it
equal speech in these ways oh it doesn't
oh it only equals it when it comes to
politics that's interesting
do you have aspirations of running for
office someday
I don't really um really is a weird word
well okay I'll explain what that means
I've learned to never say never okay
because I'm not it's just you can be
wrong so maybe when I'm 42 years old I
get the urge and I say you know what I
want to run for office but right now
you're you enjoy talking about it quite
a bit in your how old are you I am 31
that's very young to be as immersed in
politics as you are and as for as long
as you've been yes how long have you
been doing this twenty twelve I started
doing it I think late 2012 full-time
yeah that's seven fucking years man yeah
it's a long time I'm an old young guy
yes yeah that's an interesting way of
putting it yeah yeah but I mean I love
this aspect of it Joe here's the thing
in my heart of hearts I'm more like
you're a comedian yes I'm more like I
like hanging out with guys like you and
fucking around and joking around and I
don't like like if I were to ever
officially jump into politics I know
what it's like man I know the first
thing they do is cuz they've already
done it to me Oh dig up his old tweet
see what he was saying oh he said that
thing that thing is wrong and then it's
all right this whole circus I don't have
the patience for that I don't give a
fuck if they come after me I'll be like
shut the fuck up I don't care it's all
who gives a shit so you know it's it's
just it's a whole other world it's a
whole other ballgame and being an
outsider and being able to call a spade
a spade because I Got News for you they
don't the system does not like people
like me the system does not like people
like Bernie they don't like people like
tulsi they don't like these kinds of
people well they don't look people like
Trump either and he's the president well
exactly and again this gets back to the
whole populist versus elitist thing I
think Trump was probably the
most effective what I would call a fake
populist of all time is that he was
giving this image of a populist this
image that he's gonna fight for the
working man and then as we already
described earlier you know the status
quo just kind of continued chugging
along as it is look at his tax bills the
most establishment pro-establishment
bill of all time so he's an amazing
populist or but I would say it's a fake
populist cuz his policies differ from
that but you're right they don't like
people who have no filter they don't
like people who really like I actually
think your average American would be
much better at running the government
than any of these Schmucks who are there
right now or you know massively wealthy
and massively corrupt as long as they
didn't also become corrupt
yeah and that's that's the important
point about why you need systemic reform
is that any normal person can become a
part of the problem because the system
will beat you down right and that's just
the nature of the way it works but no I
don't want to run for office because I'm
doing you enjoy just commenting on it
and also you enjoy doing it on your own
time you do it whenever you want to I
make my own schedule don't get me wrong
I mean I pump stuff out yes like crazy
you do but you also don't have an
overlord no boss I can't I can't have a
boss I don't have that personality that
meshes with it I just don't and I'm you
know it's like trying to tame a zebra
you can't do it you could tame a horse
you can't tame a zebra it's a good boy
yeah so can't tame a zebra sir I don't
want to do it I know that some people
want me to do it but it's not I don't
like the idea of it well I always enjoy
talking you man and we should probably
do these more often because I learned a
lot of shit from you too thank you sit
fills in blanks and like I said I think
you're the most reasonable guy that's
doing this in terms of like doing
political commentary on YouTube and on
the Internet I really appreciate that
that means a lot coming from you let's
do it more often my friend sure man
always got to force me on a plane that's
it of course you want to plan thank you
thank you very much thanks man tell
everybody how they can get a hold of
your Instagram and I don't have an
Instagram I have a Twitter I'm like
Trump only Twitter at Kyle kolinsky on
Twitter and it's secular talk on YouTube
okay yeah thanks oh my buddy
yeah that was fun we could go for like
five hours